
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Mongolia due to COVID-19. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is less than 90 days. If you know you will be in country for more than 30 days, register with Mongolian Immigration within 7 days of arrival.
US Embassy/Consulate: +976-7007-6001; US Embassy Ulaanbaatar, Denver Street #3, 11th Micro-District, Ulaanbaatar 14190, Mongolia; UlaanbaatarACS@state.gov; 

https://mn.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 976
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 103; Fire: 101; Police: 102
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Desert; continental (large daily and seasonal temperature ranges)
Currency (Code): Togrog/tugriks (MNT)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, E


Major Languages: Mongolian, Turkic, Russian
Major Religions: Buddhist 53%, Muslim 3%, Shamanist 2.9%, Christian 2.2%
Time Difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Saturday in March; ends last Saturday in September; note: Mongolia has two time zones - Ulaanbaatar Time (8 hours in advance of UTC) and Hovd Time (7 hours in advance of UTC)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested / Note: Mongolia is sparsely inhabited and most of the country's road network consists of simple cross-country tracks.
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Karakorum; Gorkhi-Terelj National Park; Lake Khovsgol; Altai Tavan Bogd National Park; Orkhon Valley; Khustain Nuruu National Park; Petroglyphic Complexes of the Mongolian Altai
Major Sports: Soccer, horse racing, archery, wrestling, basketball
Cultural Practices: Displaying the middle finger outward is not the obscene gesture that it is in many western countries, but rather translates to "so-so."
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 10% in restaurants is customary. It is accepted practice to tip guides and drivers $10-20 (USD) per person per day.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022