
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel to Cuba due to COVID-19. Exercise increased caution in Cuba due to demonstrable and sometimes debilitating injuries to members of our diplomatic community resulting in the drawdown of embassy staff. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizen travelers should have at least 6 months of validity remaining on their passports after the date of entry even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. Tourist travel to Cuba remains prohibited. US travelers must obtain a license from the Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) (https: and or and or www.treasury.gov and or about and or … and or offices and or pages and or office-of-foreign-assets-control.aspx). Anyone physically present in the US, regardless of citizenship and nationality, must comply with these regulations. Individuals seeking to travel to Cuba are not required to obtain licenses from OFAC if their travel is covered by a general license. If travel is not covered by a general license, OFAC authorization in the form of a specific license must be sought. One authorized reason for obtaining a license is “Support of the Cuban People.” More information on the licensing process may be found at the OFAC website above. Those contemplating travel to Cuba should also consult the US State Department's consular information page about the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [53] (7) 839-4100; US Embassy Havana, Calzada between L and M Streets, Vedado, Havana, Cuba; https://cu.usembassy.gov/; acshavana@state.gov
Telephone Code: 53
Local Emergency Phone: 26811
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to April); rainy season (May to October)
Currency (Code): Cuban pesos (CUP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 110 V, 220 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, C, L


Major Languages: Spanish
Major Religions: Christian 58.9%, folk religion 17.6%, Buddhist <1%, Hindu <1%, Jewish <1%, Muslim <1%, note: data is estimative as no authoritative source on religious affiliation in Cuba is available
Time Difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC, during Standard Time) daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in March, ends first Sunday November;  note: Cuba has been known to alter the schedule of DST on short notice in an attempt to conserve electricity
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Old Havana; Varadero; Trinidad; Guardalavaca; Cayo Largo del Sur; Cayo Coco; Parque Nacional Viñales
Major Sports: Baseball, soccer, basketball
Cultural Practices: Cubans will point by puckering their lips in the direction of or at the person to whom they are referring.
Tipping Guidelines: In spas, restaurants, and barber shops, a 10% tip is appropriate. Tip the bellhop 1 peso per bag if he carries luggage to your room and leave housekeeping 1 peso per day.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022