
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Anguilla. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the US citizen has possession of a return airline ticket and confirmation of an accommodation, such as a hotel reservation.
US Embassy/Consulate: None (overseas territory of the UK); US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the US Embassy in Barbados [1] (246) 227-4000; US Embassy in Bridgetown, Wildey Business Park, St. Michael BB 14006, Barbados, WI
Telephone Code: 264
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds
Currency (Code): Eastern Caribbean dollars (XCD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 110 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: English (official)
Major Religions: Protestant 73.2%, Roman Catholic 6.8%, other Christian 10.9%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, traveler will need to present their US driver's license & IDP to local police to pay a special registration fee
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Captain’s Bay; Watersports Water Park; Heritage Collection Museum; Limestone Bay; Sandy Ground Harbor; Shoal Bay East; Meads Bay Beach; Maundays Bay Beach
Major Sports: Sailboat racing, cricket, rugby
Cultural Practices: Do not be alarmed by drivers tooting their horns - it is a common form of greeting.
Tipping Guidelines: Most restaurant bills include a 15% service charge, additional tipping is at your discretion. Tip bellhops $1-2 (USD) per bag and cleaning staff at the same rate per day for good service. Tip taxi drivers 10-15% of fare.
Souvenirs: Seashell jewelry and handicrafts, pottery, rum, collectible stamps, traditional carvingsPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, June 01, 2022