
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in India due to crime and terrorism. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [91] (11) 2419-8000; US Embassy in New Delhi, Shantipath, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi – 110021, India; acsnd@state.gov; 

https://in.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 91
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 102; Fire: 101; Police: 100, 103 (traffic accident)
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Varies from tropical monsoon in south to temperate in north
Currency (Code): Indian rupees (INR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, D, M


Major Languages: Hindi , Bengali, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Gujarati, Urdu, Kannada, Odia, Malayalam, Punjabi, Assamese, Maithili, English
Major Religions: Hindu 79.8%, Muslim 14.2%, Christian 2.3%, Sikh 1.7%
Time Difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Taj Mahal; Delhi; Dhamek Stupa; Amer Fort; Beaches of Goa; Periyar National Park; Agra Fort; Ellora Caves; Mehrangarh Fort; Nalanda Mahavihara Archaelogical Site; Mahabodhi Temple
Major Sports: Cricket, field hockey, soccer, badminton, tennis, kabaddi (contact team sport played between two teams of seven players each)
Cultural Practices: Wearing shoes indoors and pointing at people is considered rude.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 7-10% of the total bill is sufficient at restaurants. Round up taxi fares. Tip bellhops loose change for carrying bags to your room. For housekeeping, tip 5-7% of the hotel charge per night divided by the number of days stayed.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, March 30, 2022