
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Peru due to COVID-19. Exercise increased caution in Peru due to crime and terrorism. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is required, but US citizens may obtain the visa upon entering the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [51] (1) 618-2000; US Embassy in Lima, Avenida La Encalada cdra. 17 s/n, Surco, Lima 33, Peru; LimaACS@state.gov; 

https://pe.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 51
Local Emergency Phone: 011, 5114
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Varies from tropical in east to dry desert in west; temperate to frigid in Andes
Currency (Code): Nuevo sol (PEN)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, C


Major Languages: Spanish, Quechua, Aymara, Ashaninka
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 60%, Christian 14.6% (includes evangelical 11.1%, other 3.5%)
Time Difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Peru, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Machu Picchu; Cusco's architectural treasures; Lake Titicaca; Colca Canyon; Lima; Nazca Lines; Qhapaq Nan/Andean Road System
Major Sports: Soccer, volleyball, tennis
Cultural Practices: Slapping the bottom of one elbow with the open palm of the other hand means someone is cheap.
Tipping Guidelines: Most restaurant and bar bills will include a 10% gratuity. It is customary to add an extra 10% tip if the service has been satisfactory. Tipping is not expected for taxis and fares are negotiated beforehand. One Nuevo sol per bag for porters is appreciated.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Thursday, April 07, 2022