
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Armenia. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is less than 6 months.
US Embassy/Consulate: [374](10) 464-700; US Embassy in Yerevan, 1 American Avenue, Yerevan 0082, Republic of Armenia; https://am.usembassy.gov/; acsyerevan@state.gov
Telephone Code: 374
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 103; Fire: 101; Police: 102
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Highland continental, hot summers, cold winters
Currency (Code): Drams (AMD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Armenian (official) 97.9%, Russian
Major Religions: Armenian Apostolic 92.6%
Time Difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Yerevan (includes Saint Gregory Cathedral, Blue Mosque, Cafesjian Museum); Shikahogh State Reserve; Lake Sevan; Dilijan National Park; Mount Aragats; Noravank Monastery Complex; Mount Ararat
Major Sports: Wrestling, soccer, gymnastics
Cultural Practices: When using public transportation, arrive early because buses fill up quickly and leave before their departure time.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is only common in the parts of the country visited by Western travelers. Anything from 10-20% is acceptable. Restaurants may include a service fee, but this is not the same as a tip. Rounding up taxi fares as a tip is common practice.
Souvenirs: Woven carpets, evil eye glass or bead jewelry, pottery, quilled picture art, silver jewelry and cameo jewelry/artPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, May 11, 2022