
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Trinidad and Tobago due to crime, terrorism, and kidnapping.  Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website daily via the link below for any travel advisories about visiting this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [1] (868) 622-6371 through 6376; US Embassy in Port of Spain, 15 Queen’s Park West, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago; acspos@state.gov; 

https://tt.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 868
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 990; Fire: 990; Police: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; rainy season (June to December)
Currency (Code): Trinidad and Tobago dollars (TTD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 115 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: English, Trinidadian Creole English, Tobagonian Creole English, Caribbean Hindustani (a dialect of Hindi), Trinidadian Creole French, Spanish, Chinese
Major Religions: Protestant 32.1%, Roman Catholic 21.6%, Hindu 18.2%, Muslim 5%, Jehovah's Witness 1.5%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Trinidad and Tobago, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Port of Spain; Maracas Bay; Pigeon Point; Caroni Bird Sanctuary; Asa Wright Nature Centre & Lodge; Little Tobago Island; Mount Saint Benedict Monastery
Major Sports: Soccer, sailing, track and field, rugby
Cultural Practices: Avoid cursing or using foul language as it is considered a criminal offense.
Tipping Guidelines: In general, Trinidadians do not tip. A 10% service charge is often included at restaurants. If you really want to tip a particular waiter for exceptional service, make sure to physically give them the cash or leave it on the table where they can see it. Do not add it into the bill or credit card slip. Tipping private taxi drivers is at your discretion. Do not tip if you share a taxi. Tip a few dollars each round for the bartender.
Souvenirs: Sarongs and other hand-painted clothing; shell necklaces and beaded, gold, and silver jewelry; leather sandals, spices, woodcarvings, steel pan drums, handmade ceramic statuesPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, May 10, 2022