
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Paraguay.  Some areas have increased crime risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(595)(21) 213-715; EMER: +(595)(21) 229-581; US Embassy Asuncion, 1776 Mariscal Lopez Avenue, Asunción, Paraguay; ParaguayACS@state.gov; 

https://py.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 595
Local Emergency Phone: 0
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Subtropical to temperate; substantial rainfall in the eastern portions, becoming semiarid in the far west
Currency (Code): Guarani (PYG)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C


Major Languages: Spanish and Guarani, only Guarani, only Spanish
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 89.6%, Protestant 6.2%, other Christian 1.1%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October; ends last Sunday in March
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Paraguay, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Asuncion; Encarnacion (includes Jesuit Ruins); Cerro Cora National Park; Ciudad del Este & Monday Falls; Ybycui National Park; Aregua
Major Sports: Soccer, rugby
Cultural Practices: Flicking your fingers under your chin signifies not knowing or not caring.
Tipping Guidelines: A tip of 10-15% is common in restaurants. Round up taxi fares to the nearest 1,000 guarani.
Souvenirs: Yerba guampa cups or mate gourds, wood crafts, native feathered jewelry, filigree jewelry, native fabric and lace items, leather goods, woven baskets, potteryPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 25, 2022