
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Syria due to terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, armed conflict, and risk of unjust detention. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [963] (11) 3391-4444; US Embassy in Damascus, Abou Roumaneh, 2 Al Mansour Street, Damascus, Syria; USIS_damascus@embassy.mzv.cz; 

https://sy.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 963
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 110; Fire 113; Police: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mostly desert; hot, dry, sunny summers (June to August) and mild, rainy winters (December to February) along coast; cold weather with snow or sleet periodically in Damascus
Currency (Code): Syrian pounds (SYP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, E, L


Major Languages: Arabic, Kurdish, Armenian, Aramaic, Circassian, French, English
Major Religions: Muslim 87% (includes Sunni 74% and Alawi, Ismaili, and Shia 13%), Christian 10% (includes Orthodox, Uniate, and Nestorian), Druze 3%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins midnight on the last Friday in March, ends at midnight on the last Friday in October
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Palmyra & Valley of The Tombs; Damascus (includes Historic Center, Souq al-Hamidiyya, Umayyad Mosque); Ancient City of Aleppo; Krak des Chevaliers; Bosra
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, tennis, swimming
Cultural Practices: Displaying the soles of one’s feet to another person is improper. Similarly, placing one’s feet on top of a table is not acceptable.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is a common way of showing appreciation, but the amount is left to the discretion of the giver; 10 % is standard in larger restaurants.
Souvenirs: Rosewood, ebony, and olive wood carvings; embroidery, woven items, and hand-loomed brocade fabric; leather goods; gold and silver jewelry; mother-of-pearl items; inlaid steel and copper items; pottery
Traditional Cuisine: Kibbeh — ground lamb, bulgur, and seasonings baked, fried, stuffed or served raw; often served with tabbouleh (a salad made with tomatoes, parsley, bulgur, and onions mixed in a sauce of lemon juice, olive oil, and salt)Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022