
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Antigua and Barbuda. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the US citizen has possession of a return airline ticket and confirmation of an accommodation, such as a hotel reservation.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Antigua and Barbuda; the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Antigua and Barbuda; US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the US Embassy in Barbados [1] (246) 227-4000; US Embassy in Bridgetown, Wildey Business Park, St. Michael BB 14006, Barbados, WI
Telephone Code: 268
Local Emergency Phone: 999, 911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation
Currency (Code): Eastern Caribbean dollars (XCD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: English (official), Antiguan creole
Major Religions: Protestant 68.3%, Roman Catholic 8.2%, other 12.2%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, traveler will need to present their US driver's license & IDP to local police to pay a special registration fee
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: 17-Mile Beach; Nelson's Dockyard National Park; Dickenson Bay; Saint John's; Indian Town National Park (includes Devil's Bridge); Museum of Antigua and Barbuda
Major Sports: Soccer, cricket
Cultural Practices: Greet people when entering a shop or business; otherwise expect slow service or you might be ignored.
Tipping Guidelines: If the service charge is not automatically added to the bill, tip 10 - 15% in restaurants. Tip bellhops $1-2 (USD) per bag and the same per day for housekeeping. Taxi drivers 10-15% of the fare.
Souvenirs: Lavender jade/precious-gem jewelry, pottery, woven baskets, scrimshaw art, rumPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Thursday, May 19, 2022