
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Aruba due to COVID-related conditions. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Aruba; the Consul General to Curacao is accredited to Aruba; US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the US General Council to Curacao [599] (9) 4613066; US Consulate General in Curacao, PO Box 158, J.B. Gorsiraweg 1, Curacao
Telephone Code: 297
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical marine, little seasonal temperature variation
Currency (Code): Guilders/florins (AWG); USD accepted
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, F


Major Languages: Papiamento (official) (a creole language that is a mixture of Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch, English, French, elements of African languages, and the language of the Arawak) 69.4%, Spanish 13.7%, English 7.1%, Dutch (official) 6.1%
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 75.3%, Protestant 4.9%, other 12%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Arikok National Park (includes Boca Prins and Natural Pool); California Dunes and Lighthouse; Alto Vista Chapel
Major Sports: Soccer, windsurfing, sailing
Cultural Practices: Wearing swimwear around town is considered rude.
Tipping Guidelines: Some bars and restaurants already add a 10-15% service charge. If you really like the service, you can still tip. Tipping $1-2 (USD) per bag is customary for the bellhops.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022