
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Rwanda. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for each entry stamp/visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(250)-252-596-400 (Monday through Thursday, 8:15 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. and Friday from 8:15 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.); EMER: +(250)-252-596-400, and dial 1; U S Embassy Kigali, 2657 Avenue de la Gendarmerie (Kacyiru), PO Box 28, Kigali, Rwanda; consularkigali@state
Telephone Code: 250
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; two rainy seasons (February to April, November to January); mild in mountains with frost and snow possible
Currency (Code): Rwandan francs (RWF)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, J


Major Languages: Kinyarwanda, French, English, Swahili/Kiswahili
Major Religions: Protestant 49.5% (includes Adventist 11.8% and other Protestant 37.7%), Roman Catholic 43.7%, Muslim 2%, other 0.9% (includes Jehovah's Witness)
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Kigali Genocide Memorial; Volcanoes National Park; Nyungwe Forest National Park; Ethnographic Museum; Murambi Genocide Memorial; King's Palace Museum
Major Sports: Soccer
Cultural Practices: Personal space is often much tighter in Rwanda, so do not be surprised if conversations occur at closer distances.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping private guides $5-10 (USD) per person per day is common. Hotel and lodge staff would appreciate $5 (USD) per day.
Souvenirs: Imigongo art; tribal wall hangings, masks, weapons, and musical instruments; baskets with painted lids, embroidered cloth items
Traditional Cuisine: Brochettes — meat (typically goat, beef, chicken, or pork) or fish on a skewer, sometimes with vegetables, and roasted over hot coals; typically served with roasted potatoes, deep-fried bananas, or saladPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022