
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Palau.  Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required, as long as you are a tourist, and do not stay in the country more than a year.
US Embassy/Consulate: +680-587-2920/2990; EMER: +680-775-6150; US Embassy in Koror, Airai State, in an area known as Omsangel (no street address), PO Box 6028, Koror, Palau 96940; ConsularKoror@state.gov; 

https://pw.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 680
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever and cholera is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever and cholera transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever and cholera transmission.  See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to November
Currency (Code): US Dollar is used (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Palauan, other Micronesian, English, Filipino, Chinese
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 45.3%, Protestant 34.9% (includes Evangelical, Seventh Day Adventist, Assembly of God, Baptist), Modekngei 5.7%  Palau), Muslim 3%, Mormon 1.5%
Time Difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Ngerulmud; Jellyfish Lake; Rock Islands; Clear Lake; Lake Ngardok; Peleliu War Museum
Major Sports: Soccer, volleyball, basketball
Cultural Practices: Unlike in western countries where raised eyebrows often signal confusion, in Palau they are taken to mean agreement.
Tipping Guidelines: Tip 10-15% of the bill in restaurants and $5 (USD) per tank when diving.
Souvenirs: Woven baskets, mats, and straw hats; shell jewelry, wood-carved storyboards and figurines, spices, flower-based body products
Traditional Cuisine: Tinola — soup made with chicken, green papaya, and gingerPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022