
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Tonga due to COVID-19 and recent volcanic eruptions. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is less than 31 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Tonga; the US Ambassador to Fiji is accredited to Tonga; +(679) 331-4466; EMER: +(679) 772-8049; US Embassy Suva, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Tonga, Tuvalu, 158 Princes Rd, Tamavua, Suva, Fiji Islands
Telephone Code: 676
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; modified by trade winds; warm season (December to May), cool season (May to December)
Currency (Code): Pa'anga (TOP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 240 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): I


Major Languages: Tongan, English
Major Religions: Protestant 64.1%, Mormon 18.6%, Roman Catholic 14.2%
Time Difference: UTC+13 (18 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in November; ends second Sunday in January
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Nuku'alofa; Ha'atafu Beach; Mapu'a 'a Vaea Blowholes; Pangaimotu Island
Major Sports: Rugby, soccer, American football, boxing
Cultural Practices: Being excessively loud in public is considered very rude.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping in restaurants is not the norm for locals, but most tourists leave a little tip to waiters to show their appreciation. It is not customary to tip in hotels in Tonga.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022