
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to South Sudan due to crime, kidnapping, and armed conflict. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [211] 912-105-188; US Embassy in Juba, Kololo Road, adjacent to the European Union’s compound, Juba, South Sudan; ACSJuba@state.gov; 

https://ss.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 211
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 997; Fire: 998; Police: 999
Vaccinations: Yellow fever vaccine, at least 10 days before arrival, is required for travelers originating from or transiting through WHO-designated yellow fever countries. See WHO recommendations. On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Africa; South Sudan is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Hot with seasonal rainfall influenced by the annual shift of the Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone; rainfall heaviest in upland areas of the south and diminishes to the north
Currency (Code): South Sudanese pounds (SSP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, D


Major Languages: English, Arabic (includes Juba and Sudanese variants), regional languages include Dinka, Nuer, Bari, Zande, Shilluk
Major Religions: Animist, Christian, Muslim
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Boma National Park; Wau; Southern National Park; Kidepo Game Reserve; Bandingilo National Park
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, track and field
Cultural Practices: It is considered rude to not remove one's shoes before entering a household.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not customary.
Souvenirs: Ebony-wood-carved animal tribal items, grass woven baskets, leather items, gold jewelry, spices
Traditional Cuisine: Ful Medames — a vegetarian dish typically made with fava beans and served with toppings such as tomatoes, greens, feta, red onions, hard-boiled eggs, or shata (hot sauce)Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022