
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Botswana. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required.
US Embassy/Consulate: [267] 395-3982; US Embassy Gaborone, Embassy Drive, Government Enclave, (off Khama Crescent), Gaborone, Botswana; https://bw.usembassy.gov/; ConsularGabarone@state.gov
Telephone Code: 267
Local Emergency Phone: 997911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Semiarid; warm winters and hot summers
Currency (Code): Botswana pulas (BWP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): D, G


Major Languages: Setswana, Sekalanga, Shekgalagadi, English, Zezuru/Shona, Sesarwa, Sembukushu, Ndebele
Major Religions: Christian 79.1%, Badimo 4.1%, other 1.4%, none 15.2%, unspecified 0.3%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Chobe National Park; Okavango Delta; Tsodilo Hills; Nxai Pan National Park; Tuli Block; Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park; Mokolodi Nature Reserve
Major Sports: Soccer, boxing, softball, cricket, rugby
Cultural Practices: Handshakes, in Botswana, are more intricate than in western countries and involve the left hand placed under the right elbow.
Tipping Guidelines: Tip $1-2 (USD) per bag for porters to bring luggage to your room. A $1-2 (USD) tip for hotel staff is also common. A $10 (USD) per day tip is average for guides.
Souvenirs: Woven baskets, native dolls, leather and textile items, wood carvings, jewelry and ostrich shell items
Traditional Cuisine: Seswaa (or loswao) — beef or goat meat boiled with salt until tender and sometimes pounded; often served with maize meal, ground corn, or sorghumPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022