
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel to Nigeria due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, and maritime crime. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [234] (9) 461-4000; US Embassy Abuja, Plot 1075 Diplomatic Drive, Central District Area, Abuja, Nigeria; AbujaACS@state.gov; 

https://ng.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 234
Local Emergency Phone: 199
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for all travelers. See WHO recommendations. On 30 September 2021, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a Travel Health Notice for a Yellow Fever outbreak in Nigeria; a large, ongoing outbreak of yellow fever in Nigeria began in September 2017; the outbreak has now spread throughout the country with the Nigerian Ministry of Health reporting cases of the disease in multiple states (Bauchi, Benue, Delta, Ebonyi, and Enugu); the CDC recommends travelers going to Nigeria should receive vaccination against yellow fever at least 10 days before travel and should take steps to prevent mosquito bites while there; those never vaccinated against yellow fever should avoid travel to Nigeria during the outbreak.
Widespread ongoing transmission of a respiratory illness caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is occurring throughout Nigeria; as of 30 March 2022, Nigeria has reported a total of 255,341 cases of COVID-19 or 123.86 cumulative cases of COVID-19 per 100,000 population with a total of 3,142 cumulative deaths or a rate of 1.52 cumulative death per 100,000 population; as of 29 March 2022, 9.95% of the population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine.
On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Africa; Nigeria is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Varies; equatorial in south, tropical in center, arid in north
Currency (Code): Nairas (NGN)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, C, F


Major Languages: English, Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo (Ibo), Fulani, over 500 additional indigenous languages
Major Religions: Muslim 53.5%, Roman Catholic 10.6%, other Christian 35.3%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Abudja (includes Millennium Park, Zuma Rock, Arts & Crafts Village); Nana Living History Museum; Ancient Nok Settlement; New Afrika Shrine; Osun-Osogbo Sacred Grove
Major Sports: Soccer, boxing, rugby, track and field, basketball
Cultural Practices: Using the left hand for eating or greeting is considered unclean; use the right hand instead.
Tipping Guidelines: Service charges are added in many restaurants, but if not, a 10% tip is customary. Negotiate taxi fares before embarking on a journey. Tipping is not necessary.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, April 05, 2022