
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Oman due to COVID-19. Exercise increased caution due to terrorism and armed conflict. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [968] 24-643-400; US Embassy in Muscat, P.C. 115, Madinat Al Sultan Qaboos, Muscat, Oman; ConsularMuscat@state.gov; 

https://om.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 968
Local Emergency Phone: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Dry desert; hot, humid along coast; hot, dry interior; strong southwest summer monsoon (May to September) in far south
Currency (Code): Omani rials (OMR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 240 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: Arabic, English, Baluchi, Swahili, Urdu, Indian dialects
Major Religions: Muslim 85.9%, Christian 6.5%, Hindu 5.5%, Buddhist 0.8%, Jewish <0.1%
Time Difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Wahiba Sands; Musandam Fjords; Ras al Jinz; Jebel Akhdar; Salalah; Bahla; Masirah Island; Archeological sites at Bat, Al-Khutm, & Al-Ayn; Grand Mosque in Muscat; Souq Muttrah
Major Sports: Dhow racing (sailing), horse racing, falconry, camel racing, bull fighting
Cultural Practices: Pointing your foot at another person is considered very rude, as is showing the sole of one's foot.
Tipping Guidelines: A tip of 10% is considered the norm at restaurants and hotels. Rounding up or letting the driver keep the change is appropriate for taxis.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022