
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to this country due to COVID-19. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required.  A visa is not required; visitor permits granted upon arrival with return ticket.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Seychelles; the US Ambassador to Mauritius is accredited to Seychelles; +(230) 202-4400; EMER: +(230) 5253 3641; US Embassy Port Louis, 4th Floor, Rogers House, John Kennedy Street, Port Louis, Mauritius; PTLConsular@state.gov; 

https://mu.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 248
Local Emergency Phone: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical marine; humid; cooler season during southeast monsoon (late May to September); warmer season during northwest monsoon (March to May)
Currency (Code): Seychelles rupees (SCR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 240 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: Seychellois Creole, English, French
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 76.2%, Protestant 10.5% (Anglican, Pentecostal Assembly, Seventh Day Adventist, other Protestant), other Christian 2.4%, Hindu 2.4%, Muslim 1.6%
Time Difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Aldabra Atoll; Morne Blanc; Moyenne Island; Victoria (includes Seychelles National Botanical Gardens, Victoria Market)
Major Sports: Basketball, water sports
Cultural Practices: When greeting someone for the first time, and when saying goodbye, shake hands with both men and women. Wearing swimwear is fine for the beaches; otherwise, modest clothing is advised.
Tipping Guidelines: Most hotels, restaurants, taxis, and porters already include a 5-10% service charge so tipping is not obligatory. However, as a reward for exceptional service, a nominal tip is sure to be appreciated.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, January 12, 2022