
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Iran due to the risk of kidnapping and the arbitrary arrest and detention of U.S. citizens.   Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: None; the US Interests Section is located in the Embassy of Switzerland;  US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444; EMER: (202) 485-7600; Embassy of Switzerland, US Foreign Interests Section No. 39, Shahid Mousavi (Golestan 5th), Pasdaran Ave., Tehran, Iran
Telephone Code: 98
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 115; Fire: 123; Police: 110
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mostly arid or semiarid, subtropical along Caspian coast
Currency (Code): Iranian rials (IRR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Persian Farsi, Azeri and other Turkic dialects, Kurdish, Gilaki and Mazandarani, Luri, Balochi, Arabic
Major Religions: Muslim 99.4% (Shia 90-95%, Sunni 5-10%), other (includes Zoroastrian, Jewish, and Christian) 0.3%
Time Difference: UTC+3.5 (8.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins fourth Wednesday in March, ends fourth Friday in September
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Persepolis; Chogha Zanbil; Anzali Lagoon; Chalus Road; Naqsh-e Jahan Square; Shushtar Historical Hydraulic System; Naqsh-e Rostam
Major Sports: Varzesh-e-Bastani (martial art), wrestling, polo
Cultural Practices: In Iran, it is customary to decline food or other offerings even when you want them. The provider will most often insist, whereupon one should humbly accept.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not common. Offer the bellhop a little something for carrying bags to your room.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 18, 2022