
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens consult its website daily via the link below for any travel advisories about visiting United Kingdom and Cook Islands.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required for stays of less than 30 days. It is possible to extend visit up to 5 months.
US Embassy/Consulate: None (self-governing in free association with New Zealand); US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the Embassy in New Zealand [64] (4) 462-6000; United States Embassy Wellington, 29 Fitzherbert Terrace, Thorndon, Wellington 6011, New Zealand
Telephone Code: 682
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 998; Fire: 996; Police: 999
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical oceanic; moderated by trade winds; a dry season (April to November) and a more humid season (December to March)
Currency (Code): New Zealand dollars (NZD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 240 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): I


Major Languages: English 86.4%, Cook Islands Maori (Rarotongan) 76.2%, other 8.3%; note: shares sum to more than 100% because some respondents gave more than one answer on the census
Major Religions: Protestant 62.8%, Roman Catholic 17%, Mormon 4.4%
Time Difference: UTC-10 (5 hours behind Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: A local license is required.
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Tapuaetai (One Foot Island); Muri Beach; Titikaveka Beach; Te Vara Nui Village; cross-island hike to Te Rua Manga (The Needle); Aroa Marine Reserve
Major Sports: Netball, rugby, soccer
Cultural Practices: Swimwear should be confined to the beach and resort pool areas.
Tipping Guidelines: Don't feel that you need to leave a tip, unless you believe that you have received outstanding service.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022