
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Burundi due to COVID-19. Reconsider travel to Burundi due to crime, health, and political violence. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [257] 22-207-000; US Embassy in Bujumbura, B.P. 1720, Avenue Des Etats-Unis, Bujumbura, Burundi; https://bi.usembassy.gov/; BujumburaC@state.gov
Telephone Code: 257
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for all travelers. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude variation (772 m to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual temperature varies with altitude from 23 to 17°C but is generally moderate as the average altitude is about 1,700 m; average annual rainfall is about 150 cm; two wet seasons (February to May and September to November), and 2 dry seasons (June to August and December to January)
Currency (Code): Burundian francs (BIF)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, E


Major Languages: Kirundi, French,  Swahili, English
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 62.1%, Protestant 23.9%, Muslim 2.5%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Bujumbura; Kigwena Natural Reserve; Gitega; Gishora; Mount Heha; Saga Beach; Chutes De La Kerera
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, track and field
Cultural Practices: Dress is taken seriously, and therefore jeans, t- shirts, and running shoes are considered very casual and are only acceptable for outdoor activities and on weekends.
Tipping Guidelines: A 10% tip at restaurants is customary. Porters should be tipped a few francs. Tipping taxi drivers is not expected, but if the ride was pleasant you should round up. Tipping bartenders is not common.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022