
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Brunei. Consult the State Department website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [673] 238-4616; US Embassy in Bandar Seri Begawan; Simpang 336-52-16-9, Jalan Duta, Bandar Seri Begawan, BC4115 Brunei Darussalam; https://bn.usembassy.gov/; ConsularBrunei@state.gov
Telephone Code: 673
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 991; Fire: 995; Police: 993
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid, rainy
Currency (Code): Brunei dollars (BND)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 240 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: Malay, English, Chinese
Major Religions: Muslim 78.8%, Christian 8.7%, Buddhist 7.8%
Time Difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Muara Beach; Jerudong Park Playground; Gadong Night Market; Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddien Mosque; Ulu Temburong National Park; Royal Regalia Museum; Tasek Merimbun
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball
Cultural Practices: In Brunei, it is impolite to point with one's index finger; instead use the right thumb.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not customary. Large hotels and restaurants may add a 10% service charge to the bill. Taxi drivers do not expect tips.
Souvenirs: Kris ceremonial daggers, native costumes and textiles, silver work, brass items, spices
Traditional Cuisine: Ambuyat — a starchy substance derived from the interior trunk of the sago palm, which is dipped into a variety of saucesPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022