
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens RECONSIDER TRAVEL to the Marshall Islands due to COVID-19-related travel restrictions. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in the Marshall Islands.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required for US citizens.
US Embassy/Consulate: (692) 247-4011; EMER: (692)-455 8213; US Embassy Majuro, Mejen Weto, Ocean Side, Majuro, Marshall Islands; MAJConsular@state.gov; 

https://mh.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 692
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 625, 4111; Police: 625, 8666
Vaccinations: Cholera vaccination is required for those travelling from an infected area. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot and humid; wet season May to November; islands border typhoon belt
Currency (Code): US dollar is used (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Marshallese; note: English, widely spoken as a second language
Major Religions: Protestant 80.5%, Roman Catholic 8.5%, Mormon 7%, Jehovah's Witness 1.7%
Time Difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Bikini Atoll Nuclear Test Site; Kwajalein Island; Alele Museum
Major Sports: Soccer, baseball, softball
Cultural Practices: The people of the Marshall Islands emphasize respect for their elders. Codes of respect and deference are important, and often Americans are considered haughty, brash, and irreverent.
Tipping Guidelines: Meals are generally inexpensive so tipping by rounding up is appropriate. Taxi drivers do not expect tips.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022