
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution when traveling to Turkey due to terrorism and arbitrary detentions. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [90] (312) 455-5555; US Embassy Ankara, 110 Atatürk Blvd., Kavakl?dere, 06100 Ankara, Turkey; Ankara-ACS@state.gov; 

https://tr.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 90
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 112; Fire: 112; Police: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; hot, dry summers with mild, wet winters; harsher in interior
Currency (Code): Turkish liras (TRY)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Turkish, Kurdish, other minority languages
Major Religions: Muslim 99.8% (mostly Sunni), other 0.2% (mostly Christian and Jews)
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Istanbul (includes Hagia Sofia & Blue Mosque, Topkapi Palace); Ephesus; Pamukkale; Sumela Monastery; Mount Nemrut; Goreme National Park & rock sites of Cappadocia; Troy ruins; Catalhoyuk
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, volleyball
Cultural Practices: Removing shoes in Turkish homes is customary. Be careful not to point your bare feet at anyone though, as this is often considered taboo.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 10-15% in restaurants, cafes, and bars is typical. Hotel staff expect 5-20 liras for their services. Round up taxi fares.
Souvenirs: Turkish/Kilim rugs, nargile smoking pipes, evil eye items, Turkish Delight candy, ceramics and pottery, copperwork, inlaid woodwork, chess sets, musical instruments, Turkish coffee sets and coffee, leather items, gold jewelry and onyx and mother-of-pearl items,  embroidered items
Traditional Cuisine: Döner Kebab — grilled, sliced, or shaved seasoned lamb and/or beef shredded from a vertical skewer and typically folded in flat bread with tomatoes, onions, lettuce, and cucumbers; cheese is also occasionally added Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022