
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in the United Kingdom due to terrorism. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 6 months.
US Embassy/Consulate: [44] 20 7499-9000; Embassy of the United States of America, 33 Nine Elms Lane, London, SW11 7US (mailing postcode), SW8 5DB (driving/GPS postcode), United Kingdom; SCSLondon@state.gov; 

https://uk.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 44
Local Emergency Phone: 112, 999
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; moderated by prevailing southwest winds over the North Atlantic Current; more than one half of the days are overcast
Currency (Code): British pounds (GBP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: English, Scots, Scottish Gaelic, Welsh, Irish, Cornish
Major Religions: Christian (includes Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist) 59.5%, Muslim 4.4%, Hindu 1.3%, none 25.7%
Time Difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March, ends last Sunday in October; note: applies to the United Kingdom proper, not to its crown dependencies or overseas territories
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: London (includes the Tower of London, British Museum, Parliament, Trafalgar Square); Windsor Castle; Stonehenge; Roman Baths & Georgian City of Bath; York Minster & historic Yorkshire; Chester Zoo; Cotswolds & Lake District; Hadrian's Wall; Edinburgh; Cardiff
Major Sports: Soccer, cricket, rugby, badminton, tennis, netball, field hockey
Cultural Practices: It is considered rude to wave one's hand or to call when summoning a waiter at a restaurant.
Tipping Guidelines: It is customary to leave 10-15% of the total bill as a tip when eating out, although some restaurants add on a service charge instead. Tip bartenders 1 pound. It is polite to tip 10-15% of the taxi fare, or round up to the nearest pound as a convenience. Tip porters 2 pounds to bring luggage to your room.
Souvenirs: Teas, preserves, stationary, Jasperware, shortbread cookies, chocolate, scotchPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, May 10, 2022