
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Slovenia. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is less than 90 days in each 180-day period.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(386) (1) 200-5500; EMER: +(386) (1) 200-5556; US Embassy Ljubljana, Prešernova 31, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; LjubljanaACS@state.gov; 

https://si.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 386
Local Emergency Phone: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mediterranean climate on the coast, continental climate with mild to hot summers and cold winters in the plateaus and valleys to the east
Currency (Code): Euros (EUR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Slovenian, Serbo-Croatian, Italian, Hungarian
Major Religions: Catholic 57.8%, Muslim 2.4%, Orthodox 2.3%, other Christian 0.9%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Lake Bled; Postojna Cave & Predjama Castle; Piran; Ljubljana; Royal Lipizzaner Horses from Lipica; Triglav National Park & So?a River
Major Sports: Soccer, athletics (track and field), basketball, boxing, handball
Cultural Practices: It is proper to bring  gifts when invited into a household. Chocolates and wine are always appreciated.
Tipping Guidelines: In larger cities and major tourist areas, it is customary to leave about 10% of the bill; if you receive exceptional service, leave 15%.
Souvenirs: Handmade lace; dragon-, carnation-, folklore-, and beehive-themed ceramic and wood decorative items; replica boats; crystal; gold jewelry; woven baskets; liquor and wine; Soviet-era money, stamps, and military paraphernalia
Traditional Cuisine: Štruklji — rolls of filo dough filled with savory or sweet fillings including meat, cottage cheese, apple, or walnuts; the dumplings can be boiled, steamed, or fried and served as a side dish to meat or as a dessertPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022