
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Iraq due to terrorism, kidnapping, armed conflict, civil unrest, and Mission Iraq’s limited capacity to provide support to U.S. citizens. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: 0760-030-3000; US Embassy in Baghdad, Al-Kindi Street, International Zone, Baghdad, Iraq; BaghdadACS@state.gov; https://iq.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 964
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot, cloudless summers; northern mountainous regions along Iranian and Turkish borders experience cold winters with occasionally heavy snows that melt in early spring, sometimes causing extensive flooding in central and southern Iraq
Currency (Code): Iraqi dinars (IQD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, D, G


Major Languages: Arabic, Kurdish, Turkmen, Syriac, and Armenian are official in areas where native speakers of these languages constitute a majority of the population
Major Religions: Muslim 95-98% (Shia 64-69%, Sunni 29-34%), Christian 1%
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: required
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Erbil; Ziggurat of Ur; Iraq Museum (Baghdad); Basra; Karbala; Hatra; Samarra Archaeological City; Babylon
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, kickboxing, wrestling
Cultural Practices: If meals are served on the floor, sit cross legged or kneel. It is impolite to let your food touch the floor.
Tipping Guidelines: If no service charge is included in the bill, a 10-15% tip is appropriate in nicer restaurants.
Souvenirs: Copperware, hand-woven carpets and rugs, silver, spices, teas, coffees, calligraphic paintings, woven baskets, musical instruments
Traditional Cuisine: Masgouf — seasoned grilled carp	Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022