
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Venezuela due to arrest and detention of U.S. citizens without due process or fair trial guarantees, or as a pretext for an illegitimate purpose; crime, civil unrest, poor health infrastructure, and kidnapping. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country. If you are a dual citizen you must have a valid Venezuelan passport in your possession.
US Embassy/Consulate: Note - on 11 March 2019, the Department of State announced the temporary suspension of operations of the US Embassy in Caracas and the withdrawal of diplomatic personnel; all consular services, routine and emergency, are suspended; previously - +58 (212) 975–6411; US Embassy in Caracas; F St. and Suapure St., Urb . Colinas de Valle Arriba, Caracas, Venezuela 1080; ACSBogota@state.gov; 

https://ve.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 58
Local Emergency Phone: 171
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands
Currency (Code): Bolivars (VEB)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Spanish, numerous indigenous dialects
Major Religions: Nominally Roman Catholic 96%, Protestant 2%, other 2%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Venezuela, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Los Roques Archipelago; Isla de Margarita; Morrocoy National Park; Canaima National Park (includes Angel Falls, Mount Roraima, Gran Sabana)
Major Sports: Baseball, basketball, soccer
Cultural Practices: Offering coffee is a sign of hospitality in Venezuela, so declining a cup from a host may be seen as rude.
Tipping Guidelines: Most restaurants already add a 10% service charge, but an additional 5-10% tip is still expected. Bellhops expect the equivalent of $1 (USD) per piece of luggage. Taxis do not expect a tip, but do appreciate rounding up the bill.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 18, 2022