
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Tajikistan due to terrorism. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for each entry stamp/visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country. 

If travel originates from a country without an Embassy of Tajikistan, it is possible for a traveler to purchase a visa upon arrival at the airport; however, the traveler will need to first apply for a visa online with the Tajikistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), receive a pre-approval confirmation, and a Letter of Invitation from the US Embassy Dushanbe prior to arrival.
US Embassy/Consulate: 992-37-229-2000, 992-37-229-2300, (consular direct line); EMER: 992-98-580-1032; US Embassy Dushanbe, 109A, Ismoili Somoni Avenue, Dushanbe, Tajikistan 734019; DushanbeConsular@state.gov; 

https://tj.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 992
Local Emergency Phone: 3
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations. On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Asia; Tajikistan is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mid-latitude continental, hot summers, mild winters; semiarid to polar in Pamir Mountains
Currency (Code): Tajikistani somoni (TJS)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Tajik, Uzbek, Kyrgyz, Russian
Major Religions: Muslim 98% (Sunni 95%, Shia 3%), other 2%
Time Difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Dushanbe; Pamir Highway; Jisev Valley Hiking; Iskanderkul Lake; Murghab; Bulunkul & Yashilkul Lakes Trekking
Major Sports: Baseball, soccer, basketball, golf, softball
Cultural Practices: Best not to use your left hand for exchanges of money, gifts, shaking hands, or passing food. The use of ones left hand is considered unclean.
Tipping Guidelines: It is standard to tip a bellhop $1 (USD) per bag; although not expected, tipping the hotel cleaning staff is appropriate. Taxi drivers do not expect tips.
Souvenirs: Arabic words worked into jewelry, musical instruments, utensils, and small sculptures; carved furniture; hand-woven carpets; brocade fabric items; gold-embroidered rumol belts, toki kallapush scullcaps, and other items; dried apricots; Soviet-era memorabilia
Traditional Cuisine: Qurutob — dried balls of cheese are soaked in water and the resulting salty liquid is used as the base of the dish; strips of flatbread are placed on top and the mixture is usually topped with a variety of vegetables, meat, or garnished with chili peppers Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022