
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in St. Kitts and Nevis. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required.  A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Saint Kitts and Nevis; the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Saint Kitts and Nevis; US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the US Embassy in Barbados [1] (246) 227-4000; US Embassy in Bridgetown, Wildey Business Park, St. Michael BB 14006, Barbados, WI; BridgetownACS@state.gov; 

https://bb.usembassy.gov
Telephone Code: 869
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical, tempered by constant sea breezes; little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season (May to November)
Currency (Code): East Caribbean dollars (XCD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): D, G


Major Languages: English
Major Religions: Protestant 74.4%, Roman Catholic 6.7%, Rastafarian 1.7%, Jehovah's Witness 1.3%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water outside the cities
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, traveler will need to present their US driver's license & IDP to local police to pay a special registration fee
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Brimstone Hill Fortress National Park; National Museum; Alexander Hamilton House; Mount Liamuiga Volcano; Clay Villa Plantation House & Gardens; Timothy Hill Overlook; Romney Manor
Major Sports: Cricket, rugby, netball, soccer, cue sports
Cultural Practices: Avoid wearing shorts except on the beach. Professional, modest attire is expected in a business setting.
Tipping Guidelines: Most hotels and restaurants add a service charge of 10% to cover tipping. If not, add a tip of 10-15% of the total bill.
Souvenirs: Conch-shell and coconut-shell decorative items, leather goods, batik fabric, jewelry, pottery and glass artPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, May 10, 2022