
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise exercise increased caution due to crime, terrorism, and kidnapping. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [880] (2) 5566-2000; US Embassy in Dhaka, Madani Avenue, Baridhara, Dhaka -1212, Bangladesh; https://bd.usembassy.gov/; DhakaACS@state.gov
Telephone Code: 880
Local Emergency Phone: Police, Fire and Ambulance: 999; various government services: 333
Vaccinations: Hepatitis A and typhoid vaccinations are required; hepatitis B, Japanese encephalitis, and rabies vaccinations recommended. Proof of yellow fever vaccination is required if you are traveling from a country with a risk of yellow fever and are older than one year of age. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; mild winter (October to March); hot, humid summer (March to June); humid, warm rainy monsoon (June to October)
Currency (Code): Takas (BDT)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, C, D, G, K


Major Languages: Bengali
Major Religions: Muslim 81.1%, Hindu 10%
Time Difference: UTC+6 (11 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Cox's bazaar; Saint Martin’ Island; Teknaf Sea Beach; Nilachal Bandarban; Sundarbans; Somapura Mahavihara (ruins of the Buddhist Vihara at Paharpur)
Major Sports: Kabaddi (contact team sport played between two teams of seven players each), cricket
Cultural Practices: Many young Bangladeshis will touch the feet of an elder as a respectful greeting, but this is not necessarily expected of foreigners.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is very uncommon and may be seen as ostentatious. Taxi fares may be rounded up and left with the driver as a tip, and 20-30 takas a day is common for hotel staff.
Souvenirs: Pink pearls, mother-of-pearl jewelry, hand-loomed fabrics, silk, carved masks, leather goods, folk dolls
Traditional Cuisine: Ilish macher paturi — rice and Ilish fish marinated with ground spices and wrapped in banana leaves and steamed or roastedPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, July 25, 2022