
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in the Netherlands due to terrorism. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is not more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [31] (70) 310-2209; US Embassy The Hague, John Adams Park 1, 2244 BZ Wassenaar The Hague; AmsterdamUSC@state.gov; 

https://nl.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 31
Local Emergency Phone: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; marine; cool summers and mild winters
Currency (Code): Euros (EUR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Dutch
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 23.6%, Protestant 14.9%, Muslim 5.1%, other 5.6% (includes Hindu, Buddhist, Jewish), none 50.7%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March, ends last Sunday in October; note: time descriptions apply to the continental Netherlands only, for the constituent countries of the Caribbean, the time difference is UTC -4
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Amsterdam (includes Rijksmuseum, Van Gogh Museum, Westerkerk, Anne Frank House, Floating Tulip Museum, Sloten Windmill); Windmills of Kinderdijk; Hoge Veluwe National Park; Towns of the Ijsselmeer (Zuiderzee); Zeeland's Delta Works
Major Sports: Soccer, field hockey, speed skating, cycling
Cultural Practices: It is polite to introduce yourself in a group; the lack of an introduction can be seen as standoffish or rude.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is expected in restaurants for good or exceptional service. Tip 10% of the bill. At hotels, tipping is not expected since service charges are generally factored into the bill, but you may leave a few euros for good service. Round up taxi fares.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 25, 2022