
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Thailand. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay more than 30 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [66] (2) 205-4000; US Embassy Bangkok, 95 Wireless Road, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; acsbkk@state.gov; 

https://th.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 66
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 191; Fire: 199; Police: 191
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; rainy, warm, cloudy southwest monsoon (mid-May to September); dry, cool northeast monsoon (November to mid-March); southern isthmus always hot and humid
Currency (Code): Baht (THB)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, C, O


Major Languages: Thai, Malay, Burmese
Major Religions: Buddhist 94.6%, Muslim 4.3%, Christian 1%
Time Difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Bangkok (includes Grand Palace, Wat Phra Kaew & Wat Pho, Prasart Museum); Railay Beach; Koh Phi Phi; Sunday Walking Street; Khao Yai National Park; Ban Chiang; Chang Mai
Major Sports: Muay thai (Thai boxing), soccer, badminton, golf, tennis
Cultural Practices: Marigolds and carnations are associated with funerals and thus make poor gifts.
Tipping Guidelines: A 10% tip is adequate in restaurants, but check to see if a service charge has been added; if so, leave behind some loose change. It is common to round up the fare to the nearest bill in taxi cabs. Most hotels include a 10% service charge in the bill, but you can tip bellhops $1-2 (USD) for carrying bags to a room. Leave housekeeping 20 baht under your pillow.
Souvenirs: Buddha statues, silk harem pants and other fabric items, Hill Tribe bags, spices and sauces
Traditional Cuisine: Pad Thai — stir-fried rice noodles with scrambled eggs, fish sauce, dried shrimp, tamarind pulp, bean sprouts, roasted crushed peanuts, and tofu; if meat is added it is typically chicken or porkPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022