
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Dominica. Consult its website daily via the link below for any travel advisories about visiting this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Dominica; the US Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Dominica; US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the US Embassy in Barbados [1] (246) 227-4000; US Embassy in Bridgetown, Wildey Business Park, St. Michael BB 14006, Barbados, WI; https://bb.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 1
Local Emergency Phone: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy rainfall
Currency (Code): Eastern Caribbean dollars (XCD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): D, G


Major Languages: English, French patois
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 52.7%, Protestant 29.7%, Jehovah's Witness 1.3%, Rastafarian 1.1%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, traveler will need to present their US driver's license & IDP to local police to pay a special registration fee
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Boiling Lake; Morne Trois Pitons National Park; Titou Gorge
Major Sports: Cricket, soccer
Cultural Practices: Drawing air through the teeth to make a sucking sound is used to express anger or annoyance.
Tipping Guidelines: Tips of 10% are expected at restaurants unless service charges are added. It is appropriate to tip a housekeeper $1-2 (USD) per night for good service.
Souvenirs:  Grass and reed rugs and bags, Carib baskets, herbs and spices, pottery, jewelry, coconut items, rumPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, May 11, 2022