
US State Dept Travel Advisory: https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: A foreign national or alien entering the US is generally required to present a passport and valid visa issued by a US Consular Official, unless they are a citizen of a country eligible for the Visa Waiver Program (VWP), or are a lawful permanent resident of the US or a citizen of Canada. The VWP allows foreign nationals from certain countries to be admitted to the US under limited conditions and for a limited time without obtaining a visa. The foreign national must arrive on an approved carrier (if coming by air or sea), stay no more than 90 days (for pleasure, medical purposes, and/or business), and be able to prove they are not inadmissible. The foreign national is still required to have a passport. To obtain a list of VWP-eligible countries and VWP passport requirements, please visit https: www.dhs.gov and/or visa waiver program requirements. Note: all travelers transiting the US are subject to US customs and/or immigration laws.
US Embassy/Consulate: N/A
Telephone Code: 684
Local Emergency Phone: 911 (USA)
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds; annual rainfall averages about 3 m (10 feet); rainy season (November to April), dry season (May to October); little seasonal temperature variation; the temperature typically varies from 25°C - 31°C (77°F to 88°F) and is rarely below 23°C (74°F)
Currency (Code): US $ (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, F, I


Major Languages: Samoan 88.6%, English 3.9%, Tongan 2.7%, other Pacific islander 3%
Major Religions: Christian 98.3%
Time Difference: UTC-11 (6 hours behind Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested for non-US citizens.
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: National Park of American Samoa (includes Ofu Beach, Pola Island); National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa (Fagatele Bay); Leone Church; Pago Pago Harbor; Tia Seu Lupe Park; Jean P. Haydon Museum; Rose Atoll
Major Sports: Football, rugby, soccer
Cultural Practices: In a traditional home, called a fale (fah-LAY), sit on the floor before talking, eating, or drinking. Cross your legs or pull a mat over them, as it is impolite to stretch out your legs.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not part of the culture, so leaving a few extra dollars is appreciated. Be sure to hand the tip directly to the employee to ensure the right person receives it. Tip hotel porters $2 (USD) dollars per bag. Taxi drivers would appreciate rounding up to the nearest even figure.
Souvenirs: Tapa bark cloth, traditional clothing, shell purses and handicrafts, wood carvings, woven mats
Traditional Cuisine: Palusami (solidified coconut milk baked in Taro leaves); Faiai Eleni (fish in coconut cream); Fa’apapa (sweet coconut bread); Fa’ausi (Fa’apapa bread coat-cooked in a sweet and rich coconut caramel sauce); Kopai (sweet dessert  dumpling); Panikeke (deep fried sweet banana fitters); 'ava (drink made from ground Kava root)Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Friday, May 13, 2022