
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel due to crime, terrorism, and COVID-19. Exercise increased caution due to civil unrest and kidnapping. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [57] (1) 275-2000; US Embassy in Bogota, Carrera 45 No. 24B-27 Bogotá, D.C. Colombia; https://co.usembassy.gov/; ACSBogota@state.gov
Telephone Code: 57
Local Emergency Phone: 119
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in highlands
Currency (Code): Pesos (COP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 110 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Spanish
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 79%, Protestant 14%
Time Difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Colombia, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Salt Cathedral; Tayrona National Park; Monserrate; Santuario de Las Lajas; Los Nevados National Park; Cartagena; Cano Cristales; Qhapaq Nan/Andean Road System; San Agustin Archaeological Park; National Archeological Park of Tierradentro
Major Sports: Soccer, boxing, shooting sports, taekwondo, wrestling, tejo (involves throwing a disc at a small target)
Cultural Practices: Roses are well-received gifts in Colombia, but marigolds and lilies are disliked because of their association with funerals.
Tipping Guidelines: A 10% tip is common at restaurants. Taxi drivers are rarely tipped. An appropriate tip for a porter/bellboy is about $1 (USD) per bag. It is also good tipping etiquette to leave a small gratuity of about $1-2 (USD) per day for housekeeping.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Friday, March 25, 2022