A portfolio of photos showing the George Bush Center for Intelligence and its environs (aka CIA headquarters), the home of The World Factbook.To view more photos of the CIA compound, visit CIA Sites to See and Explore CIA Headquarters.

Topic: Headquarters and JetsSpectacular aerial view of the Agency’s Original and New Headquarters Buildings being overflown by two F-16 jets.

Topic: OHB in the SnowThe CIA’s Original Headquarters Building is depicted during a snow storm. The building was designed in the mid-1950s by the New York firm Harrison and Abramovitz. The designers followed the vision of former DCI Allen Dulles, who dreamed of a place where intelligence officers could work in a college campus-like atmosphere. He also wanted this secure and secluded environment to be close to US policymakers. (Langley is 13 km (8 mi) outside of downtown Washington.) OHB’s cornerstone was laid on 3 November 1959. Construction was completed in March 1961. OHB consists of 130,000 sq m (1,400,000 sq ft) of space. OHB and its companion, New Headquarters Building, sit on 104 hectares (258 acres) of land.

Topic: Aerial View of HeadquartersHistoric aerial view of the Agency’s headquarters buildings and the “bubble” auditorium.

Topic: OHB Main StepsThe CIA’s Original Headquarters Building was designed in the mid-1950s by the New York firm Harrison and Abramovitz. The designers followed the vision of former DCI Allen Dulles, who dreamed of a place where intelligence officers could work in a college campus-like atmosphere. He also wanted this secure and secluded environment to be close to US policymakers. (Langley is 13 km (8 mi) outside of downtown Washington.)

Topic: OHB at NightThe CIA’s Original Headquarters Building at night. The building, designed in the mid-1950s by the New York firm Harrison and Abramovitz, followed the vision of former DCI Allen Dulles. Dulles dreamed of a place where intelligence officers could work in a college campus-like atmosphere in a secure and secluded environment close to US policymakers.

Topic: OHB SpringThe CIA’s Original Headquarters Building (OHB) in the spring. A number of magnificent magnolia trees grace the CIA campus.

Topic: The LobbyThe iconic Lobby of the CIA Headquarters Building. The massive seal has been featured in countless movies and publicity photos. On the left is the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) Memorial and the William Donovan statue. The OSS, precursor to the CIA, was set up on 13 June 1942 in the midst of World War II and dissolved a month after the cessation of hostilities on 20 September 1945. William Donovan served as head of OSS and is regarded as the founding father of the CIA. On the right is the Memorial Wall to Agency officers who have died in the line of duty.

Topic: Memorial WallThe Memorial Wall on the north side of the Original Headquarters Building lobby stands as a silent, simple memorial to those CIA officers who have made the ultimate sacrifice. Among the stars, an inscription reads: “In honor of those members of the Central Intelligence Agency who gave their lives in the service of their country.” The Memorial Wall was commissioned by the CIA Fine Arts Commission in May 1973 and sculpted by Harold Vogel in July 1974.There are 139 stars carved into the marble of the CIA Memorial Wall as of 2022. Inclusion on the Memorial Wall is awarded posthumously to employees who lose their lives while serving their country in the field of intelligence. Death may occur in a foreign field or in the United States.The Honor and Merit Awards Board (HMAB) recommends approval of the nomination to the CIA Director if it meets the following selection criteria:

Death must be of an inspirational or heroic character while in the performance of duty; or as the result of an act of terrorism while in the performance of duty; or as an act of premeditated violence targeted against an employee, motivated solely by that employee’s Agency affiliation; or in the performance of duty while serving in areas of hostilities or other exceptionally hazardous conditions where the death is a direct result of such hostilities or hazards.The HMAB reviews the circumstances surrounding the death of an employee and makes its recommendation to the DCIA for final approval. Once approved by the DCIA, the Office of Protocol arranges placement of the star on the Memorial Wall.A stone carver creates a star by first tracing the new star on the wall using a template. Each star measures 2-1/4 inches tall by 2-1/4 inches wide and half an inch deep; all the stars are six inches apart from each other, as are all the rows. The stone carver uses both a pneumatic air hammer and a chisel to carve out the traced pattern. After carving the star, the stone carver cleans the dust and sprays the star black, which as the star ages, fades to gray. The current stone carver is part of a lineage who learned this craft from the Memorial Wall’s original sculptor, Harold Vogel.The new star is officially unveiled at the CIA’s annual Memorial Ceremony.

Topic: The Lobby at ChristmasThe lobby of the Original Headquarters Building decorated for the holidays.

Topic: Liberty MuralThe Statue of Liberty Mural in the Original Headquarters Building. The two-sentence quote can almost be regarded as the Agency’s mission statement: “We are the nation’s first line of defense. We accomplish what others cannot accomplish and go where others cannot go.”

Topic: Nathan Hale StatueA statue of Nathan Hale is located between the Auditorium and the Original Headquarters Building. Hale was the first American executed for spying for his country. This statue is a copy of the original work created in 1914 for Yale University, Nathan Hale’s alma mater. The Agency’s statue was erected on the grounds in 1973, 200 years after his graduation from Yale.There is no known portrait of Nathan Hale; this life-size statue portrays what little written description there is of him. The statue captures the spirit of the moment before his execution – a 21-year-old man prepared to meet his death for honor and country, hands and feet bound, face resolute, and his eyes on the horizon. His last words, “I regret that I have but one life to lose for my country,” circle the base around his feet.He stands vigilant guard on the Agency and is a continuing reminder to its employees of the duties and sacrifices of an intelligence officer.

Topic: Memorial Pond at SunriseThe Memorial Garden is located on a hillside between the Original Headquarters Building and the Auditorium. It is one of several memorials on the CIA compound (including the Office of Strategic Services Memorial and the CIA Memorial Wall). The garden is a memorial to all deceased intelligence officers and contractors who served their country.Where some memorials are set in stone, this remembrance uses the quiet beauty of living nature to honor those who have died in service to their country: Agency officers, OSS members, and contractors. The garden is a blend of natural and landscaped plantings amid stone outcroppings from which a cascade of water continuously falls into a large fishpond, providing a tranquil and reflective place for Agency employees. The words, “In remembrance of those whose unheralded efforts served a grateful nation,” are cast in a brass plaque set in fieldstone to ensure the living will not forget the fallen.

Topic: Memorial Pond KoiThese are some of the koi that live in the pond in the Memorial Garden located on a hillside between the Original Headquarters Building and the Auditorium. It is one of several memorials on the CIA compound (including the Office of Strategic Services Memorial and the CIA Memorial Wall). The garden is a memorial to all deceased intelligence officers and contractors who served their country. 

Topic: Heron in the Memorial PondOften outside birds, such as this heron, are drawn to the beauty and solemnity of the Memorial Garden located on a hillside between the Original Headquarters Building and the Auditorium. The garden is a memorial to all deceased intelligence officers and contractors who served their country.

Topic: Auditorium in the FallThe Headquarters Auditorium, called the “Bubble” by Agency employees, got its nickname for its bubble- or igloo-like shape. The auditorium was part of the CIA Headquarters design in the mid-1950s. The Bubble is the largest conference area at the CIA. It measures 650 sq m (7,000 sq ft) of floor space, can accommodate 470 people, and complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act.The auditorium is equipped with the latest in multi-media equipment, including side and rear lighting that accommodates color television cameras and motion picture filming. The Bubble is home to special events, prominent speakers, and large conferences.

Topic: Inside the AuditoriumThe Headquarters Auditorium, called the “Bubble” by Agency employees, got its nickname for its bubble- or igloo-like shape. The auditorium was part of the CIA Headquarters design in the mid-1950s. The Bubble is the largest conference area at the CIA. It measures 650 sq m (7,000 sq ft) of floor space, can accommodate 470 people, and complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act.The auditorium is equipped with the latest in multi-media equipment, including side and rear lighting that accommodates color television cameras and motion picture filming. The large plaster disks on the inside surface of the dome enhance the acoustics of the auditorium. The Bubble is home to special events, prominent speakers, and large conferences.

Topic: Berlin WallIn developing this monument, the CIA Fine Arts Commission decided on five precepts for its placement: prominence, pedestrian orientation, a sense of the wall as an obstacle, an “unromantic presentation,” and a measure of contemplation. The Wall is located near the southwest entrance to the Original Headquarters Building. It was dedicated on 18 December 1992. A bronze plaque near the Wall reads, “These three sections of reinforced concrete were removed from the Berlin Wall near Checkpoint Charlie at Potsdamer Platz in November 1989.”The monument is oriented as it was in Berlin — the west side painted with graffiti and the east side whitewashed. The west side of the Wall is covered with graffiti that reflects the color, hope and optimism of the West itself. In stark contrast, the east side of the wall is plain and devoid of color and life. The Wall is located in the middle of a path so that it must be confronted directly — just as it was for nearly three decades by the citizens of Berlin. On both sides of the Wall is a bench- height wall where employees can sit and view the three segments and contemplate their history.

Topic: New Headquarters Building LobbyThis is a view of the lobby of the New Headquarters Building. By the early 1980s, it was clear that the Agency needed to expand beyond the Original Headquarters Building. By this time, there was a need for an additional building and more parking. Smith, Hinchman, and Grylls Associates presented a design that was functional for the Agency’s needs and would blend in with the existing OHB structure.The final design is two, six-story office towers built into a hillside behind OHB. The New Headquarters Building is linked to the OHB building in a seamless blend of the two structures. The main entrance to NHB is on the fourth floor. Inside the entrance, one is greeted by a huge skylight ceiling and, at the end of the entry corridor, a spectacular view of the OHB.The groundbreaking ceremony for NHB took place on 24 May 1984; the building was completed by March 1991.

Topic: Daffodils at NHBBy the early 1980s, it was clear that the Agency needed to expand beyond the Original Headquarters Building. By this time, there was a need for an additional building and more parking. Smith, Hinchman, and Grylls Associates presented a design that was functional for the Agency’s needs and would blend in with the existing OHB structure.The final design is two, six-story office towers built into a hillside behind OHB. The New Headquarters Building is linked to the OHB building in a seamless blend of the two structures. The main entrance to NHB is on the fourth floor. Inside the entrance, one is greeted by a huge skylight ceiling and, at the end of the entry corridor, a spectacular view of the OHB.The groundbreaking ceremony for NHB took place on 24 May 1984; the building was completed by March 1991.

Topic: A-12 in the SnowCIA developed the highly secret A-12 OXCART as the U-2’s successor, intended to meet the nation’s need for a very fast, very high-flying reconnaissance aircraft that could avoid Soviet air defenses. CIA awarded the OXCART contract to Lockheed (builder of the U-2) in 1959. In meeting the A-12’s extreme speed and altitude requirements, Lockheed — led by legendary engineer Clarence “Kelly” Johnson — overcame numerous technical challenges with cutting-edge innovations in titanium fabrication, lubricants, jet engines, fuel, navigation, flight control, electronic countermeasures, radar stealthiness, and pilot life-support systems. In 1965, after hundreds of hours flown at high personal risk by the elite team of CIA and Lockheed pilots, the A-12 was declared fully operational, attaining the design specifications of a sustained speed of Mach 3.2 at 27,400 m (90,000 ft) altitude.CIA’s operational use of the A-12 was beset by not only many technical problems but also political sensitivity to aircraft flights over denied areas and competition from imaging satellites. After the U-2 piloted by Francis Gary Powers was shot down over the Soviet Union in May 1960, all Soviet overflights were halted, thus blocking the A-12’s original mission to monitor the Soviet Bloc. By the time of CIA’s first A-12 deployment in 1967, CORONA satellites were being launched regularly to collect thousands of images worldwide each year. Although its imagery was less timely and of poorer resolution than the A-12’s, CORONA was invulnerable to anti-aircraft missiles and much less provocative than A-12 overflights. At the same time, the US Air Force was developing the SR-71, a modified version of the A-12. Seeing little value in maintaining both overt SR-71 and covert A-12 fleets with similar capabilities, President Johnson ordered retirement of the A-12 in 1968.The only A-12 reconnaissance operation, codenamed BLACK SHIELD, took place from May 1967 to May 1968. A detachment of six pilots and three A-12’s based at Kadena Air Force Base in Okinawa flew 29 missions over East Asia. The panoramic stereo camera aboard each aircraft yielded considerable high-quality imagery that within hours of landing was processed. From the images, photo interpreters provided key intelligence information in support of US military operations during the Vietnam War.The A-12 on display at CIA Headquarters — number eight in production of the 15 A-12s built — was the first of the operational fleet to be certified for Mach 3. No piloted operational jet aircraft has ever flown faster or higher. This picture depicts it at wintertime.

Topic: KryptosJames Sanborn’s sculpture “Kryptos” begins at the entrance to the New Headquarters Building and continues in the northwest corner of the New Headquarters Building courtyard.The theme of this sculpture is “intelligence gathering.” Dedicated on 3 November 1990, Kryptos incorporates materials native to the United States. A piece of petrified wood supports a large S-shaped copper screen that looks like a piece of paper coming out of a computer printer. On the “paper” are inscribed several enigmatic messages, each written in a different code. The sculpture continues to be a source of pleasure and mystery for Agency employees, with a few taking the challenge to “break the code.”“Kryptos” © Copyright 1988 James Sanborn. All rights reserved.

Topic: Kryptos at NHBJames Sanborn’s sculpture “Kryptos” begins at the entrance to the New Headquarters Building and continues in the northwest corner of the New Headquarters Building courtyard.The theme of this sculpture is “intelligence gathering.” Dedicated on 3 November 1990, Kryptos incorporates materials native to the United States. A piece of petrified wood supports a large S-shaped copper screen that looks like a piece of paper coming out of a computer printer. On the “paper” are inscribed several enigmatic messages, each written in a different code. The sculpture continues to be a source of pleasure and mystery for Agency employees, with a few taking the challenge to “break the code.”“Kryptos” © Copyright 1988 James Sanborn. All rights reserved.

Topic: Kryptos with FlowersJames Sanborn’s sculpture “Kryptos,” as pictured in the spring, begins at the entrance to the New Headquarters Building and continues in the northwest corner of the New Headquarters Building courtyard.“Kryptos” © Copyright 1988 James Sanborn. All rights reserved. To view more photos of the CIA compound, visit CIA Sites to See and Explore CIA Headquarters.