
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Austria. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [43] (1) 31339-0; US Embassy in Austria, Boltzmanngasse 16, 1090 Vienna, Austria; https://at.usembassy.gov/; ConsulateVienna@state.gov
Telephone Code: 43
Local Emergency Phone: 112, 122
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent rain and some snow in lowlands and snow in mountains; moderate summers with occasional showers
Currency (Code): Euro (EUR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: German, Turkish, Serbian, Croatian
Major Religions: Catholic 57%, Eastern Orthodox 8.7%, Muslim 7.9%, Evangelical Christian 3.3%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March, ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Vienna Hofburg; Salzburg Altstadt; Innsbruck's Hofburg and Hofkirche; Melk Benedictine Abbey; Austrian National Library; Karlskirche (St. Charles Borromeo Church); UN Office in Vienna; Shoenbrunn Palace; Salzkammergut (includes Hallstatt and Dachstein); Skiing at Kitzbuehel and Kitzbueheler Horn; prehistoric pile dwellings around the Alps
Major Sports: Soccer, alpine skiing, ice hockey
Cultural Practices: While some Austrian men will kiss the hand of a female as a greeting, it would be improper for a foreigner to kiss the hands of Austrian females.
Tipping Guidelines: It is customary to round up and leave the change at restaurants for the server. Taxi drivers usually receive an extra 10% over the meter fare. Porters or bellhops should receive up to 1 euro per bag.
Souvenirs: Handbags, crystal, porcelain, winter sports equipment, bronze and Hummel figurines, carved Nativity scenes featuring Alpine villagesPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, May 10, 2022