
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens RECONSIDER TRAVEL to Laos due to COVID-19-related restrictions.  Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [856] 21-48-7000; US Embassy Vientiane, Ban Somvang Thai, Thadeua Road, Km 9, Hatsayfong District, Laos; CONSLAO@state.gov; 

https://la.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 856
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical monsoon; rainy season (May to November); dry season (December to April)
Currency (Code): Kips (LAK)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, C, E, F


Major Languages: Lao, French, English, various ethnic languages
Major Religions: Buddhist 64.7%, Christian 1.7%
Time Difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Elephant Village Sanctuary; Four Thousand Islands (includes Khone Pha Pheng Waterfall); Kong Lor Caves; Wat Phu;; Vientiane; Luang Prabang (former royal city); Plain of Jars
Major Sports: Soccer, sepak takraw (kick volleyball), muay lao (martial art)
Cultural Practices: It is considered very rude to touch another person's head or to touch their body with your feet.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not customary except in tourist-oriented restaurants where 10% of the bill is appreciated, but only if a service charge has not already been added. Tour guides and day-long drivers expect $10-15 (USD) per day for a gratuity. Tip hotel staff $2-3 (USD) per day for their service .Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022