
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Timor-Leste due to crime and civil unrest. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.


https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for each entry stamp/visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(670) 332-4684; EMER: +(670) 7723-1328; US Embassy Dili,  Av. de Portugal, Praia dos Coqueiros, Dili, Timor-Leste; ConsDili@state.gov; 

https://tl.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 670
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance and Fire: 115; Police: 112; 331 2383
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid; distinct rainy and dry seasons
Currency (Code): US Dollar (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): E, G, I


Major Languages: Tetun Prasa, Mambai, Makasai, Tetun Terik, Baikenu, Kemak, Bunak, Tokodede, Fataluku: note: there are about 32 indigenous languages
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 97.6%, Protestant/Evangelical 2%, Muslim 0.2%
Time Difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Dili (includes Cristo Rei, Resistance Museum, Tais Market); Jesus Backside Beach; Atauro Island; Lake Ira Lalaro; Jaco Island; Mount Ramelau; Marobo Hot Springs
Major Sports: Soccer, boxing
Cultural Practices: Timorese women are usually modestly dressed. It would be respectful, as a tourist, to dress likewise.
Tipping Guidelines: Service charges are not added to bills automatically. Leave a 10% tip if the service warrants it. Tipping is not seen as a necessity, but a reward for good service.
Souvenirs: Tais woven fabric, Batik and embroidered fabrics, shell and pearl jewelry, handmade bags, woodcarvings, silverwork
Traditional Cuisine: Ikan pepes — fish is coated in a paste made with ingredients including turmeric, macadamia nuts, tomatoes, shrimp paste, palm sugar, lemon basil, tamarind, lemongrass, and chili peppers and then wrapped in banana leaves; the parcels are steamed or grilled and served with lime or lemon wedges on the side Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022