
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel to Japan due to COVID-19-related entry restrictions. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required for stays of less than 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [81] (03) 3224-5000; US Embassy in Tokyo, 1-10-5 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8420, Japan; TokyoACS@state.gov; 

https://jp.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 81
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 119; Fire: 119; Police: 110
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Varies from tropical in south to cool temperate in north
Currency (Code): Yen (JPY)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 100 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Japanese
Major Religions: Shintoism 69%, Buddhism 66.7%, Christianity 1.5%, other 6.2%; note: many people practice both Shintoism and Buddhism
Time Difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: required
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Tokyo (includes Imperial Palace, Skytree, Mount Fuji, Disneyland); Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park; Historic Kyoto; Island Shrine of Itsukushima; Historic Nara; Himeji Castle; Nagasaki; Okinawa
Major Sports: Sumo wrestling, karate, judo
Cultural Practices: Shaking hands in Japan is less widespread than in other countries. Bowing is much more common.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not expected by the majority of service workers. This includes restaurant servers, hotel employees, and cab drivers. Some even regard tipping as rude or degrading. Staff connected with tourism, such as tour guides, may be grateful for tips.
Souvenirs: Silk kimonos, designer fashion and electronics, beauty products, bento boxes, art supplies, bamboo and paper wagasa umbrellas, printed tenugui cloth items, hand fans, tanuki statues; ceremonially dressed dolls, kites, and folk toys; maneki neko good fortune cat itemsPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 18, 2022