
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Cambodia. Some areas have increased risks. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [855] (23) 728-000; US Embassy in Phnom Penh, #1, Street 96, Sangkat Wat Phnom, Khan Daun Penh, Phnom Penh, Cambodia; https://kh.usembassy.gov/; ACSPhnomPenh@state.gov
Telephone Code: 855
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 119; Fire: 118; Police: 117
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to November); dry season (December to April); little seasonal temperature variation
Currency (Code): Riels (KHR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, C, G


Major Languages: Khmer, Chinese, Vietnamese, other minority languages
Major Religions: Buddhist 97.9%, Muslim 1.1%, Christian 0.5%
Time Difference: UTC+7 (12 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Angkor Wat; Bayon Temple; Banteay Srei; Kratie; Royal Palace Phnom Penh; Angkor Thom; Prasat Bayong; Preah Khan; Bokor Hill Station
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball
Cultural Practices: In Cambodia, traditional greetings consist of a bow combined with a bringing of the hands together at the chest. The more respect intended, the lower the bow and the higher the placement of the hands.
Tipping Guidelines: A tip of 10% is appropriate at restaurants. If you are staying in a hotel, give the bellman around $1 (USD) per bag and housekeeping $1 (USD) per day. Taxi drivers do not expect tips.
Souvenirs: Krama scarves, silk items, carved statues, jewelry, silver boxes and bowls
Traditional Cuisine: A mok trei (fish amok) — a steamed fish curry with a mousse-like consistencyPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022