
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Ukraine due to Russian military invasion and COVID-19. U.S. citizens in Ukraine should depart immediately if it is safe to do so using any commercial or other privately available ground transportation options. U.S. citizens should not travel to Ukraine due to the active armed conflict and the singling out of U.S. citizens in Ukraine by Russian government security officials. All U.S. citizens should carefully monitor U.S. government notices and local and international media outlets for information about changing security conditions and alerts to shelter in place. Those remaining in Ukraine should exercise increased caution due to the potential for active combat, crime, and civil unrest. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: +38 (044) 521-5566; EMER +38 (044) 521-5000; US Embassy Kyiv, 4 A.I. Sikorsky St (formerly Tankova), 04112 Kyiv, Ukraine; kyivacs@state.gov; 

https://ua.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 380
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 03, 118; Fire: 01; Police: 02
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations. On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Eastern Europe; Ukraine is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate continental; Mediterranean only on the southern Crimean coast; precipitation disproportionately distributed, highest in west and north, lesser in east and southeast; winters vary from cool along the Black Sea to cold farther inland; warm summers across the greater part of the country, hot in the south
Currency (Code): Hryvnia (UAH)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Ukrainian, Russian, other minority languages
Major Religions: Ukrainian Orthodox -Kyiv Patriarchate, Ukrainian Orthodox -Moscow Patriarchate, Ukrainian Greek Catholic, Roman Catholic, Protestant, Muslim, Jewish
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Kyiv (includes Saint Sophia Cathedral, Monastery of the Caves, Museum of Folk Architecture, Saint Michael’s Golden Domed Monastery, Mariinsky Palace, National Opera House, Chernobyl Museum, Saint Andrew’s Church); Mount Hoverla; Tunnel of Love; Old Town Lviv; Odessa; Chernivtsi; Tauric Chersonese & Its Chora
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, boxing, ice hockey
Cultural Practices: When invited to a household for dinner, it is considered rude to refuse any of the dishes offered.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not required in Ukraine. However, 10% of the total bill is appreciated for good service. Tip the bellhop/porter the equivalent of $1 (USD) per bag and tip housekeeping your change.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 25, 2022