
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in the British Virgin Islands. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required for stays of less than 30 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: None (overseas territory of the UK); US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the US Embassy in Barbados [1] (246) 227-4000; US Embassy in Bridgetown, Wildey Business Park, St. Michael BB 14006, Barbados, WI
Telephone Code: 284
Local Emergency Phone: 999 (British)
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Subtropical, tempered by easterly trade winds, relatively low humidity, little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season September to November
Currency (Code): Dollar (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 110 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: English
Major Religions: Protestant 70.2%, Roman Catholic 8.9%, Jehovah's Witness 2.5%, Hindu 1.9%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: The Baths; Dolphin Discovery; Cane Garden Bay; Jost Van Dyke; Rhone National Marine Park
Major Sports: Soccer, cricket, sailing
Cultural Practices: Swimwear off the beach is frowned upon.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 15-20% is customary in bars and restaurants. Tip the bellhop $1-2 per bag and housekeeping $2 per day.
Souvenirs: Carved wooden and straw woven items, batik fabric, luxury items, rum, pottery, spices, handmade jewelry
Traditional Cuisine: Fish and Fungi — cornmeal and okra cooked into a thick mash served with fried whole fish seasoned Creole-style and topped with a sweet onion gravyPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022