
US State Dept Travel Advisory: https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: A foreign national or alien entering the US is generally required to present a passport and valid visa issued by a US Consular Official, unless they are a citizen of a country eligible for the Visa Waiver Program (VWP), or are a lawful permanent resident of the US or a citizen of Canada. The VWP allows foreign nationals from certain countries to be admitted to the US under limited conditions and for a limited time without obtaining a visa. The foreign national must arrive on an approved carrier (if coming by air or sea), stay no more than 90 days (for pleasure, medical purposes, and/or business), and be able to prove they are not inadmissible. The foreign national is still required to have a passport. To obtain a list of VWP-eligible countries and VWP passport requirements, please visit https://www.dhs.gov/visa-waiver-program. Note: all travelers transiting the US are subject to US customs and/or immigration laws.
US Embassy/Consulate: N/A
Telephone Code: 787, 939
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical marine, mild; little seasonal temperature variation
Currency (Code): US $ (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Spanish, English
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant and other 15%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested for non-US citizens.
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: El Yunque National Rainforest; Old San Juan & El Morro Castle; Cabo Roho Lighthouse; Coamo Thermal Hot Springs; Bioluminescent Mosquito Bay; Fort San Cristobal
Major Sports: Baseball, boxing, basketball, volleyball
Cultural Practices: Puerto Ricans believe that directness is rude and will attempt to use euphemisms to avoid it.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 15-20% of the total bill for restaurant staff is appropriate.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Thursday, April 07, 2022