
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel to Chad due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, and kidnapping. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [235] 2251-5017; US Embassy N’Djamena, B.P. 413, N’Djamena, Chad; https://td.usembassy.gov/; NdjamenaACS@state.gov
Telephone Code: 235
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 997; Fire: 998; Police: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical in south, desert in north
Currency (Code): Cooperation Financiere en Afrique Central francs (Central African CFA franc, XAF)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, D, E, F


Major Languages: French , Arabic, Sara (in south), more than 120 different languages and dialects
Major Religions: Muslim 52.1%, Protestant 23.9%, Roman Catholic 20%, animist 0.3%, other Christian 0.2%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Chad National Museum; Zakouma National Park; Lakes of Ounianga; Ennedi Massif
Major Sports: Soccer, boxing, wrestling
Cultural Practices: All photography requires a government permit. Taking photos of military sites, official buildings, and airports is strictly prohibited, even with a permit.
Tipping Guidelines: Service charges are not usually included in restaurants and tips of 10% for waiters are acceptable. Taxi fares should be rounded up if the service is good.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, March 30, 2022