
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Australia. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa or Electronic Travel Authority (ETA) prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [61] (02) 6214-5600; US Embassy in Canberra, Moonah Place, Yarralumla, ACT 2600, Australia; https://au.usembassy.gov/; AskEmbassyCanberra@state.gov
Telephone Code: 61
Local Emergency Phone: 000 (112 on cell phone)
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east; tropical in north
Currency (Code): Dollars (AUD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): I


Major Languages: English 72.7%, other minority languages
Major Religions: Protestant 23.1%, Roman Catholic 22.6%, other Christian 4.2%, other minority religions
Time Difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in October, ends first Sunday in April; Australia has four time zones, including Lord Howe Island (UTC+10:30) UTC +8, +9, +10
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Sydney (includes Opera House & Harbour Bridge); Great Barrier Reef Marine Park; Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park (aka Ayers Rock-the Olgas); Blue Mountains National Park; Bondi Beach; Daintree National Park; Fraser Island; Kakadu National Park; Darling Harbour; Australian National Maritime Museum; the Outback; Port Campbell National Park
Major Sports: Australian football
Cultural Practices: Australians often greet each other with "G' day," or "G' day, mate," but if a foreigner were to use this phrase it might come across as patronizing.
Tipping Guidelines: Restaurant prices are required by law to include tax and service charges. Rounding up the bill to the nearest $5-10 (AUD) would be appropriate for exceptional service. Try to leave cash, since it is common for servers not to receive credit card tips. Round up the fare for taxi driver's tip.
Souvenirs: Boomerangs and other indigenous carved items, stuffed toy native animals (such as kangaroo, koala, wombat, and platypus), jewelry, woolen goods, vegemitePlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 18, 2022