
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens reconsider travel to Micronesia due to COVID-19 related travel restrictions. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in Micronesia.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long.  A visa is not required.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(691) 320-2187; EMER: +(691) 920-2369; US Embassy Kolonia, US Embassy in Kolonia, PO Box 1286, Kolonia, Pohnpei, FSM 96941 Federated States of Micronesia; koloniaacs@state.gov; 

https://fm.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 691
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: A valid international certificate of vaccination is required for travelers coming from a region infected with small pox, yellow fever, or cholera. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; heavy year-round rainfall, especially in the eastern islands; located on southern edge of the typhoon belt with occasionally severe damage
Currency (Code): US dollar is used
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: English, Chuukese, Kosrean, Pohnpeian, Yapese, Ulithian, Woleaian, Nukuoro, Kapingamarangi
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 54.7%, Protestant 41.1%, Mormon 1.5%
Time Difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Nan Madol; Chuuk (Truk) Lagoon; Kepirohi Falls
Major Sports: Baseball, soccer
Cultural Practices: The islands are known for their stick dancing traditions. All the islands revere their extended family connections and clan system.
Tipping Guidelines: Meals are generally inexpensive so tipping by rounding up is appropriate. Taxi drivers do not expect tips.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022