
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Nicaragua due to COVID-19. Reconsider travel due to limited healthcare availability and arbitrary enforcement of laws. Exercise increased caution in Nicaragua due to crime. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required for stays of less than 30 days. You must purchase a tourist card for $10 USD at the airport (exact change recommended), valid for up to a total of 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(505) 2252-7100; US Embassy Managua, Km 5 ½ Carretera Sur, Managua, Nicaragua; ACS.Managua@state.gov; 

https://ni.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 505
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 128; Fire: 115, 911; Police: 118
Vaccinations: Travelers must show proof of yellow fever vaccination administered at least 10 days before travel in order to be permitted entry to Nicaragua. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical in lowlands, cooler in highlands
Currency (Code): Cordobas (NIO)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Spanish, Miskito, Mestizo
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 50%, Evangelical 33.2%, other 2.9%, unspecified 13.2%
Time Difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Nicaragua, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Somoto Canyon; Masaya Volcano National Park; Cerro Mogotón; Isla Ometepe; Cerro Negro; Pearl Cays; Bosawas Biosphere Reserve
Major Sports: Soccer, baseball, boxing
Cultural Practices: Pointing is accomplished with the lips - pucker the lips and raise the chin briefly in the direction you are pointing to.
Tipping Guidelines: Leaving a 8-10% tip at restaurants is appropriate. Tipping a porter 50 cents (USD), a doorman $1-2 (USD), and hotel housekeeping $1 (USD) per day is common.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022