
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in the Dominican Republic due to crime. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 30 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [1] (809) 567-7775; US Embassy in Santo Domingo, Av. Republica de Colombia # 57, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; https://do.usembassy.gov/; SDOAmericans@state.gov
Telephone Code: 809
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation; seasonal variation in rainfall
Currency (Code): Dominican pesos (DOP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, C


Major Languages: Spanish
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 44.3%, Evangelical 13%, Protestant 7.9%, Adventist 1.4%
Time Difference: UTC-4 (1 hour ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in the Dominican Republic, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Cuidad Colonial of Santo Domingo; Lake Enriquillo; Del Este National Park; Samaná Peninsula and Samaná Bay; Bahia de Las Aguilas and Jaragua National Park; Basilica of Our Lady
Major Sports: Baseball, soccer, boxing
Cultural Practices: Not resting elbows on the table and keeping hands visible while eating is considered polite.
Tipping Guidelines: At most restaurants, a tip of 10% is expected unless service charges are pre-added. Typical bellhop tips are $1-2 (USD) per bag and $2-3 (USD) per night for housekeepers.
Souvenirs: Larimar jewelry and stones, amber jewelry, woodcarvings, pottery, baskets, limestone carvings, cigars, rumPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 25, 2022