
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Russia due to the unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine by Russian military forces, the potential for harassment against U.S. citizens by Russian government security officials, the singling out of U.S. citizens in Russia by Russian government security officials including for detention, the arbitrary enforcement of local law, limited flights into and out of Russia, the Embassy’s limited ability to assist U.S. citizens in Russia, COVID-19 and related entry restrictions, and terrorism. U.S. citizens residing or travelling in Russia should depart Russia immediately. Some areas have increased risk due to terrorism, kidnapping, and risk of civil unrest. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [7] (495) 728-5000; US Embassy Moscow, Bolshoy Deviatinsky, Pereulok No. 8, Moscow 121099, Russian Federation; MoscowACS@state.gov; 

https://ru.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 7
Local Emergency Phone: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Ranges from steppes in the south through humid continental in much of European Russia; subarctic in Siberia to tundra climate in the polar north; winters vary from cool along Black Sea coast to frigid in Siberia; summers vary from warm in the steppes to cool along Arctic coast
Currency (Code): Russian rubles (RUB)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Russian, Tatar, Chechen
Major Religions: Russian Orthodox 15-20%, Muslim 10-15%, other Christian 2%, note: estimates of practicing worshipers; Russia has large populations of non-practicing believers and non-believers
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); note: Russia has 11 time zones, the largest number of contiguous time zones of any country in the world; in 2014, two time zones were added and daylight saving time dropped
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Moscow (includes Kremlin & Red Square, Saint Basil Cathedral); Suzdal; Lake Baikal; Saint Sophia Cathedral (Veliky Novgorod); Kizhi Island; Valley of Geysers; Mount Elbrus; Saint Petersburg (includes Hermitage Museum, Saint Isaac’s Cathedral, Peterhof Palace)
Major Sports: Soccer, ice hockey, handball, basketball,  tennis
Cultural Practices: Leaving a small amount of food on your plate indicates that your host has provided ample hospitality.
Tipping Guidelines: Tip between 10-15% of the bill at restaurants. A porter or bellhop should receive 30-90 rubles or $1-3 (USD) per bag to carry luggage to a room. Hotel housekeeping would appreciate between 60-120 rubles per day. Tipping taxi drivers is not necessary.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Thursday, April 07, 2022