
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Singapore. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [65] 6476-9100; US Embassy Singapore, 27 Napier Road, Singapore 258508; singaporeusembassy@state.gov; 

https://sg.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 65
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 995; Fire: 995; Police: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid, rainy; two distinct monsoon seasons - northeastern monsoon (December to March) and southwestern monsoon (June to September); inter-monsoon - frequent afternoon and early evening thunderstorms
Currency (Code): Singapore dollars (SGD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: English, Mandarin, other Chinese dialects, Malay, Tamil
Major Religions: Buddhist 31.1%, Christian 18.9%, Muslim 15.6%, Taoist 8.8%, Hindu 5%
Time Difference: UTC+8 (13 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Marina Bay Sands; Gardens by the Bay; Singapore Botanic Gardens; Singapore Zoo; Orchard Road; Singapore Flyer; Jurong Bird Park; Raffles Hotel; Tooth Relic Temple; National Orchid Gardens
Major Sports: Soccer, badminton, rugby, cricket, swimming, basketball
Cultural Practices: Do not be surprised if gifts are initially refused. It is common to turn down a gift out of modesty up to three times.
Tipping Guidelines: Despite restaurants including a service charge, it is standard to tip 10%. Hand wait staff cash directly while thanking them for their service. Round up taxi fares. Tip bellhops 1-2 Singapore dollars per bag.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, May 10, 2022