
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Costa Rica due to crime. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 90 days, but a return ticket is required.
US Embassy/Consulate: [506] 2519-2000; US Embassy in San Jose, Calle 98 Vía 104, Pavas, San José, Costa Rica; https://cr.usembassy.gov/; acssanjose@state.gov
Telephone Code: 506
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to April); rainy season (May to November); cooler in highlands
Currency (Code): Costa Rican colones (CRC)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Spanish, English
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 71.8%, Evangelical and Pentecostal 12.3%, other Protestant 2.6%, Jehovah's Witness 0.5%
Time Difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Costa Rica, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Manuel Antonio National Park; Poas Volcano National Park; Arenal Volcano National Park; Monteverde and the Cloud Forests; Cocos Island; Tamarindo; Mal Pais and Santa Teresa; Tortuguero National Park
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball
Cultural Practices: Local Costa Ricans are loath to say "no," instead preferring "maybe." Keep in mind that a "maybe" is not an attempt to lie or mislead.
Tipping Guidelines: Many restaurants will add a 10% service charge to the bill. If the service was good, you may leave a little extra for the server. It is standard to leave 500 CR (or $1 USD) per drink at bars. Tip tour guides between $10-15 (USD) per person depending on the size of the tour. Give $1-5 (USD) for taxi drivers depending on the distance. Round up for shorter distances. It is considerate to tip bellhops $1 (USD) per bag and leave $2 (USD) per day for housekeeping.
Souvenirs: Coffee, hammocks, ceramic and wood bowls, wooden macaw statues and other carved items, leather rocking chairs, handmade earrings and threaded necklaces
Traditional Cuisine: Gallo Pinto — kidney or black beans or pigeon peas and rice cooked together and mixed with Lizano sauce; often served as breakfastPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022