
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Ecuador due to civil unrest and crime. Some areas have increased risk Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days in a 12-month period.
US Embassy/Consulate: [593] (2) 398-5000; US Embassy Quito, E12-170 Avigiras Ave. and Eloy Alfaro Ave., Quito, Ecuador; https://ec.usembassy.gov/; ACSQuito@state.gov
Telephone Code: 593
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 131; Fire: 102; Police: 101
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical along coast, becoming cooler inland at higher elevations; tropical in Amazonian jungle lowlands
Currency (Code): US $ (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Spanish (Castilian), Quechua
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 74%, Evangelical 10.4%, Jehovah's Witness 1.2%, other 6.4%, atheist 7.9%, agnostic 0.1%
Time Difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC, during Standard Time); note:  Ecuador has two time zones, including the Galapagos Islands (UTC-6)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Ecuador, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Galápagos Islands; Quito historic center; Cuenca historic center; Cotopaxi; Cajas National Park; Guayaquil Boardwalk (Malecon 2000); Nariz del Diablo; Qhapaq Nan/Andean Road System
Major Sports: Soccer, cycling
Cultural Practices: Roses make excellent gifts, and among close friends perfume is considered appropriate.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 10% is common in restaurants, usually handed directly to the server. Round up the fare for taxis. Hotel bellhops receive $1-2 (USD) per bag and housekeepers about $1 (USD) per day.
Souvenirs: Coffee, llama wool products, woven baskets and straw hats, carpets, tagua vegetable and wood carvings, non-edible dough figurines, leather goods, sheepskin paintings; tribal instruments, masks, jewelry, and fabrics
Traditional Cuisine: Ceviche — raw fresh fish marinated with lime juice and mixed with chilies, onions, tomatoes, and cilantro; typically served with patacones (thick fried green plantains), chifles (very thin fried green plantain chips), corn nuts, or popcornPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022