
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Tunisia due to terrorism. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [216] 71 107-000; US Embassy Tunis, Les Berges du Lac, 1053 Tunis, Tunisia; tunisacs@state.gov; 

https://tn.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 216
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 190; Fire: 198; Police: 197
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate in north with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers; desert in south
Currency (Code): Tunisian dinars (TND)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, E


Major Languages: Arabic, French, Berber
Major Religions: Muslim (Sunni) 99.1%, other (includes Christian, Jewish, Shia Muslim and Baha'i) 1%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Tunis (includes Medina, Al-Zaytuna Mosque, Ville Nouvelle); Carthage; Bardo National Museum; Sidi Bou Said; El Jem amphitheater; Monastir; Dougga
Major Sports: Soccer, handball, basketball, volleyball
Cultural Practices: Eat only with the right hand, as the left is considered unclean.
Tipping Guidelines: Tip 5-15%, or round up the bill at restaurants. Hotel porters expect 5 dinars per bag and hotel maids 20 dinars per week as a gratuity. Round up the fare for taxis or add 5% to the total.
Souvenirs: Woven carpets/rugs, copper and brassware, olivewood sculptures, carved wooden birdcages, ceramic and tile goods, kaftans, shisha water pipes
Traditional Cuisine: Couscous — semolina flour sprinkled with water until it forms into tiny pellets that are then pushed through a sieve; typically steamed to a crumbly paste and tossed with a variety of ingredients including carrots, potatoes, turnips, and parsley	Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022