
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Algeria due to terrorism and kidnapping. Consult its website daily via the link below for any travel advisories about visiting this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required, unless entering via cruise ship. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country, if not entering via cruise ship.
US Embassy/Consulate: [213] (0) 770-08-2000; US Embassy in Algiers, 05 Chemin Cheikh Bachir Ibrahimi, El-Biar 16030, Alger, Algeria; https://dz.usembassy.gov/; ACSAlgiers@state.gov
Telephone Code: 213
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 21606666; Fire: 14; Police: 17
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers on high plateau; sirocco is a hot, dust/sand-laden wind especially common in summer
Currency (Code): Dinars (DZD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Arabic (official), French (lingua franca), Berber or Tamazight (official); Berber dialects include Kabyle, Shawiya, Mzab, and Tuareg
Major Religions: Muslim (official; predominantly Sunni) 99%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Algiers, particularly the Casbah; Hoggar Mts. and Atakor Volcanic Field; Oran City; Constantine
Major Sports: Soccer, boxing, judo
Cultural Practices: It is best for men to allow the woman to extend her hand or offer her cheek first. If the hand is not extended, a man may make a slight bow or nod as a polite acknowledgement.
Tipping Guidelines: Waiters and bartenders should be tipped 10% of the total bill. Taxi fares are usually pre-negotiated, but a tip of 5-10 dinars is appreciated. Hotel maids should be tipped 90-100 dinars a night.
Souvenirs: Kandura tunics, leather items, rugs, copper and brassware, coral jewelryPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 18, 2022