
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens RECONSIDER TRAVEL to Sri Lanka due to COVID-19.  Exercise increased caution in Sri Lanka due to terrorism.  Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [94] (11) 249-8500; US Embassy Colombo, 210 Galle Road, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka; colomboacs@state.gov; 

https://lk.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 94
Local Emergency Phone: 1 691095, 699935
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical monsoon; northeast monsoon (December to March); southwest monsoon (June to October)
Currency (Code): Sri Lankan rupees (LKR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): D, G


Major Languages: Sinhala, Tamil, English
Major Religions: Buddhist 70.2%, Hindu 12.6%, Muslim 9.7%, Roman Catholic 6.1%, other Christian 1.3%
Time Difference: UTC+5.5 (10.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Sigiriya Rock Fort; Yala National Park; Galle Fort; Adam's Peak; Temple of the Tooth; Arugam Bay; Pinnawala Elephant Orphanage; Gal Vihara
Major Sports: Volleyball, cricket, rugby, athletics (track and field), soccer, netball, tennis
Cultural Practices: Flowers are uncommon gifts in Sri Lanka because they are traditionally associated with mourning.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 10% is customary in restaurants; if a service charge is included, leave a few extra rupees. Tip bar staff 100 rupees as you leave. Conventionally, 50-100 rupees is a good tip for hotel staff, including porters, room cleaners, and room service personnel. Tip taxi drivers 10% of the fare.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, January 12, 2022