
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in in Senegal. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required.  A visa is required, but US citizen travelers may obtain the visa upon entering the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(221) 33-879-4000; EMER: +(221) 33-879-4444; US Embassy Dakar, Route des Almadies, Dakar, Senegal; DakarACS@state.gov; 

https://sn.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 221
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations. On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Africa; Senegal is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine. 

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid; rainy season (May to November) has strong southeast winds; dry season (December to April) dominated by hot, dry, harmattan wind
Currency (Code): Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, D, E, F


Major Languages: French, Wolof, Pular, Jola, Mandinka, Serer, Soninke
Major Religions: Muslim 95.9% (most adhere to one of the four main Sufi brotherhoods), Christian 4.1% (mostly Roman Catholic)
Time Difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Goree Island; Dakar; Pink Lake; Cap Skirring; Petite Cote; Saloum Delta National Park
Major Sports: Soccer, wrestling, basketball, motor sports (off-road rally)
Cultural Practices: It is considered rude to let the bottom of one's foot or shoe point at someone.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is uncommon in restaurants and taxi cabs. For exceptional service, a tip is appropriate.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, April 05, 2022