
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Albania due to crime. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than a year.
US Embassy/Consulate: [355] 4 2247-285; US Embassy Tirana, Rruga Stavro Vinjau, No. 14, Tirana, Albania; https://al.usembassy.gov/; ACSTirana@state.gov
Telephone Code: 355
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 17; Fire: 18; Police: 19
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear summers; interior is cooler and wetter
Currency (Code): Leke (ALL)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Albanian 98.8% (official), Greek 0.5%, other minority languages
Major Religions: Muslim 56.7%, Roman Catholic 10%, Orthodox 6.8%, other minority religions
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); +1hr, begins last Sunday in March, ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Porto Palermo Castle; Valbona Valley; Apollonia; Saranda; Tirana; Himare; Berat; Shkodra; Pindus Mts. & Dinaric Alps; Kruje; Butrint; Gjirokastra
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, volleyball, handball, boxing
Cultural Practices: Albanians will usually save gifts to open in private. Wrapping them nicely is a good idea.
Tipping Guidelines: Rounding up the bill at restaurants is fine, unless the service was outstanding, in which case, a good tip will be much appreciated. Taxi drivers do not expect a tip, but if they help with your luggage and provide you with tourist information, a tip would be appreciated. Tipping the housekeeping staff is not necessary but appreciated.
Souvenirs: Woven kilim rugs, alabaster, copper crafts, leather footwear, perfumesPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 25, 2022