
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Liberia due to crime and civil unrest. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for each entry stamp/visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(231) 77-677-7000; US Embassy Monrovia, 502 Benson Street, Monrovia, Liberia; ACSMonrovia@state.gov; 

https://lr.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 231
Local Emergency Phone: 911 (cell phone only)
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for all travelers. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid; dry winters with hot days and cool to cold nights; wet, cloudy summers with frequent heavy showers
Currency (Code): Liberian dollars (LRD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V, 220 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, C, F


Major Languages: English, some 20 ethnic group languages few of which can be written or used in correspondence
Major Religions: Christian 85.6%, Muslim 12.2%, Traditional 0.6%
Time Difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Mount Nimba; Monkey Island; Waterside Market, Monrovia; Sapo National Park
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, track and field
Cultural Practices: Communication in Liberia typically involves more physical contact than in America. It is not uncommon for a speaker to rest their hand on your shoulder.
Tipping Guidelines: Some restaurants add a service charge to the bill, if not, a 10% tip is customary. Hotel service staff appreciate small amounts for good service.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022