
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Brazil due to crime. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp. A visa is not required.
US Embassy/Consulate: [55] (61) 3312-7000; US Embassy in Brasilia, SES – Av. das Nações, Quadra 801, Lote 03, 70403-900 – Brasília, DF; https://br.usembassy.gov/; BrasilliaACS@state.gov
Telephone Code: 55
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance:  192 or 193 ; Fire:  193; Police:  190
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mostly tropical, but temperate in south
Currency (Code): Reals (BRL)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): C, N (No standard voltage)


Major Languages: Portuguese
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 64.6%, other Catholic 0.4%, Protestant 22.2%, other Christian 0.7%, Spiritis 2.2%
Time Difference: Federal District (UTC -3), Llha Fernando de Noronha (UTC -2), Manaus (UTC -4), Rio Branco (UTC -5)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested;  if you plan to drive in Brazil, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Rio Carnival; Iguazu Falls; Lencois Maranhenses National Park; Christ the Redeemer Statue; Fernando De Noronha archipelago; Amazon Theatre; Canoa Quebrada; Botanical Garden of Curitiba; Amazon Rain Forest
Major Sports: Soccer, volleyball, basketball, capoeria (Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines elements of dance, acrobatics, and music)
Cultural Practices: Street markets (feira) are a popular feature in all areas of Brazil. They offer a wide selection of unique foods. Coxinha (ko-sheen-ya), a type of minced chicken [croquettes], is especially popular.
Tipping Guidelines: A standard service fee of 10% is included at most restaurants and bars; if not, you may leave a 10-15% tip. Round up the fare for a taxi driver's tip. Leave loose change for housekeeping each night.
Souvenirs: Woven hammocks, carved wooden figurines and musical instruments, gold and silver gemstone jewelry, handmade lace,  feather headdresses
Traditional Cuisine: Feijoada — kidney or black beans stewed with beef and pork and sometimes vegetablesPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022