
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Fiji. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 4 months.
US Embassy/Consulate: [679] 331-4466; US Embassy in Suva, 158 Princes Road, Tamavua, PO Box 218, Suva, Fiji; https://fj.usembassy.gov/; SuvaACS@state.gov
Telephone Code: 679
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical marine; only slight seasonal temperature variation
Currency (Code): Fijian dollars (FJD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 240 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): I


Major Languages: English (official), iTaukei (official), Fiji Hindi (official)
Major Religions: Protestant 45%, Hindu 27.9%, other Christian 10.4%, Roman Catholic 9.1%, Muslim 6.3%, Sikh 0.3%
Time Difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins first Sunday in November; ends second Sunday in January
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Mamanuca and Yasawa Islands; Taveuni Island (includes Bouma National Heritage Park); Beqa Lagoon
Major Sports: Rugby, soccer
Cultural Practices: In more conservative village environments, it is considered proper to remove one's hat and sunglasses when greeting someone in public.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not required or expected. In lieu of tipping individuals, many resorts have a "Staff Christmas Fund" box available so their guests can contribute to the staff as a whole. Round up the fare for taxis.
Souvenirs: Wood-carved mako masks and other tribal wooden items, shell items, pearls, pottery, tapa cloth; pandanus woven mats, baskets, and rope
Traditional Cuisine: Kokoda — fresh, raw fish such as mahi-mahi or snapper marinated in a combination of coconut milk and citrus juices; often garnished with sea salt, minced chilis, finely sliced green onions, or coriander leavesPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, July 25, 2022