
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Montenegro due to COVID-19. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required.  A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: +382 (0)20 410 500; US Embassy Podgorica, Dzona Dzeksona 2, 81000 Podgorica, Montenegro; PodgoricaACS@state.gov; 

https://me.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 382
Local Emergency Phone: 94
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mediterranean climate, hot dry summers and autumns and relatively cold winters with heavy snowfalls inland
Currency (Code): Euros (EUR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Serbian, Montenegrin, Bosnian, Albanian, Serbo-Croat
Major Religions: Orthodox 72.1%, Muslim 19.1%, Catholic 3.4%, atheist 1.2%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1 hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Sveti Stefan; Budva Old Town; Kotor (includes San Giovanni Fortress); Durmitor National Park (includes Tara Canyon, Black Lake); Stecci Medieval Tombstones; Podgorica
Major Sports: Soccer, water polo, basketball, football, volleyball
Cultural Practices: Conversations in Montenegro may involve more physical touching than those in America, with light touches and taps on the shoulder being common.
Tipping Guidelines: Service charges are generally not included in restaurants and hotel bills, so a tip of 10% is appreciated. Taxi drivers do not expect tips, but a small gratuity is appropriate.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022