
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Morocco due to terrorism. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required, but US citizens may obtain the visa upon entering the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [212] 537 637 200; US Embassy Rabat, Km 5.7, Avenue Mohamed VI, Souissi, Rabat 10170, Morocco; ACSCasablanca@state.gov; https://ma.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 212
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 15; Fire: 15; Police: 19
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mediterranean, becoming more extreme in the interior
Currency (Code): Moroccan dirhams (MAD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, E


Major Languages: Arabic, Berber languages (Tamazight, Tachelhit, Tarifit), French
Major Religions: Muslim 99% (virtually all Sunni, <0.1% Shia), other 1% (includes Christian, Jewish, and Baha'i)
Time Difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1 hour, begins last Sunday in March, ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Marrakesh (includes Medina, Majorelle & Secret Gardens, Museum); Hassan II Mosque (Casablanca); Rabat (includes Royal Palace, Udayas Kasbah, Hassan Tower); Fes el Bali; Tangier; Chefchaouen; Volubilis; Atlas Mountains; Ouzoud Waterfalls; Ait Benhaddou
Major Sports: Soccer, kickboxing
Cultural Practices: Using the index finger to ask someone to approach is considered impolite.
Tipping Guidelines: In restaurants, if a service charge has not been added, leave 20-30 dirhams or 10% of the bill. Tipping the bellhop 10-20 dirhams is reasonable. Round up taxi fares. Leave 5-10 dirhams per day for housekeeping.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 18, 2022