
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Libya due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, and armed conflict. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required.  A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: Please direct inquiries regarding US citizens in Libya to LibyaEmergencyUSC@state.gov; US Embassy in Tripoli is closed, contact the Libya External Office at the US Embassy in Tunis;  [216] 71 107-000;  Les Berges du Lac, 1053 Tunis; LibyaACS@state.gov; 

https://ly.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 218
Local Emergency Phone: 193, 1515
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior
Currency (Code): Libyan dinars (LYD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, L


Major Languages: Arabic, Italian, English, Berber
Major Religions: Muslim (virtually all Sunni) 96.6%, Christian 2.7%, Buddhist 0.3%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Tadrart Acacus; Cyrene; Leptis Magna; Old Town Ghadames; Sabratha; Tripoli (includes Arch of Marcus Aurelius, Red Castle Museum)
Major Sports: Soccer
Cultural Practices: When invited to a home, it is common to be offered coffee or tea, and it is polite to accept this offer.
Tipping Guidelines: A service charge of 10-20% is customary on restaurant and hotel bills.
Souvenirs: Ghadames slippers, blended oils/perfumes, stamps, gold jewelry inlaid with precious stones, leather goods, hand-loomed rugs, pottery, stringed musical instruments, copperware, palm leaf basketsPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, May 10, 2022