
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel to the United Arab Emirates due to the threat of missile or drone attacks. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 30 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [971] (2) 414-2200; US Embassy in Abu Dhabi, Embassies District, Plot 38, Sector W59-02, Street No. 4, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E.; abudhabiacs@state.gov; 

https://ae.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 971
Local Emergency Phone: 998, 999
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Desert; cooler in eastern mountains
Currency (Code): Emirati dirhams (AED)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: Arabic, English, Hindi, Malayam, Urdu, Pashto, Tagalog, Persian
Major Religions: Muslim 76%, Christian 9%, other ( Hindu and Buddhist) 15%
Time Difference: UTC+4 (9 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Dubai (includes Burj Khalifa (world’s tallest building), Burj-al-Arab Hotel (world's tallest hotel), Dubai Creek Dhow Ride, Dubai Museum); Jebel Hafeet; Bastakia; Al-Bidyah Mosque; Sharjah Museum of Islamic Civilization; Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque; Al Ain
Major Sports: Soccer, cricket, tennis, table tennis
Cultural Practices: The sole of the foot is considered the lowliest part of the body; it is therefore considered very rude to use the foot to point or to move around objects.
Tipping Guidelines: Even if there is a service charge, tip the waiter 10-15% of the total bill. Many Dubai residents choose to tip taxi and hail-riding services 5-10 dirhams or to round up the fare.
Souvenirs: Silk pashminas, leather goods, perfumes, gold and silver items
Traditional Cuisine: Kabsa (or Al Machboos) — chopped meat, fried onions, salt, other spices, and dried lemon served with rice cooked in the broth from the meat mixture Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022