
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Bahrain due to COVID-19.  Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [973] 1724-2700; US Embassy Manama, Bldg. 979, Road 3119, Block 331, Zinj, PO Box 26431, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain; https://bh.usembassy.gov/; ManamaConsular@state.gov
Telephone Code: 973
Local Emergency Phone: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Arid; mild, pleasant winters and very hot, humid summers
Currency (Code): Dinars (BHD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: Arabic, English, Farsi, Urdu
Major Religions: Muslim 73.7%, Christian 9.3%, Jewish 0.1%, other 16.9%
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Adhari Park; Al Areen Wildlife Park; Manama (includes National Museum, Al Khamis Mosque, Al-Qudaibiya Palace); The Tree of Life; Arad Fort; Qal'at al-Bahrain- ancient harbor & capital of Dilmun
Major Sports: Soccer, mixed martial arts, cricket, car racing
Cultural Practices: If eating a meal on the floor, it is considered taboo to let one's feet touch the food mat. To avoid this situation, sit cross legged or kneel.
Tipping Guidelines: While there is often a 10% service charge at restaurants, it is still customary to leave a 10% tip for wait staff. Taxi drivers expect a 10% tip and porters will be happy with about 100 dinars per bag.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022