
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Israel due to terrorism and civil unrest. Exercise increased caution when traveling to the West Bank due to terrorism and civil unrest. DO NOT TRAVEL to Gaza due to terrorism, civil unrest, and armed conflict. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp. A visa is not required if stay is less than 90 days. There are restrictions for visitors wanting to travel to the West Bank or Gaza, or for travelers with dual US and Israeli citizenship, consult: travel.state.gov and/or content and/or travel and/or international-travel and/or International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages and/or IsraeltheWestBankandGaza.html).
US Embassy/Consulate: [972] (2) 630-4000; US Embassy Jerusalem, 14 David Flusser Street, Jerusalem 9378322, Israel; JerusalemACS@state.gov; 

https://il.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 972
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 101; Fire: 102; Police: 100
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations. On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Asia; Israel is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; hot and dry in southern and eastern desert areas
Currency (Code): New Israeli shekels (ILS); the shekel is also commonly referred to as NIS
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, H


Major Languages: Hebrew, Arabic, English (most commonly used foreign language)
Major Religions: Jewish 74.1%, Muslim 17.9%, Christian 1.9%, Druze 1.6%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, Friday before the last Sunday in March, ends the last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Yes, but many opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Jerusalem (includes Temple Mount, al-Aqsa Mosque, Holy Sepulcher Church, Mount of Olives); Bethlehem; Timna Park; Sea of Galilee; Masada; Dead Sea; Haifa & Mount Carmel
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball
Cultural Practices: It is common to bring a present if invited to a home for dinner. Wine, flowers, or chocolates are appreciated gifts.
Tipping Guidelines: Tip servers 10-15% at restaurants. Tipping taxi drivers is not expected.
Souvenirs: Religious artifacts, jewelry, olive wood carvings, olive oil and Dead Sea mineral beauty products, antiquities replicas including Roman coins, olive oil and kosher foodsPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, May 10, 2022