
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Chile due to civil unrest. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [56] (2) 2330-3000; US Embassy Santiago, Av. Andrés Bello 2800, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile; https://cl.usembassy.gov/; SantiagoUSA@state.gov
Telephone Code: 56
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 131; Fire: 132; Police 132
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; desert in north; Mediterranean in central region; cool and damp in south
Currency (Code): Chilean pesos (CLP)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, L


Major Languages: Spanish, English, indigenous languages
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 66.7%, Evangelical or Protestant 16.4%, Jehovah's Witness 1%
Time Difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins second Sunday in August; ends second Sunday in May;  Punta Arenas observes DST throughout the year; note: Chile has 3 time zones: the continental portion at UTC-3; the southern Magallanes region, which does not use daylight saving time and remains at UTC-3 for the summer months; and Easter Island at UTC-5
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Chile, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Torres Del Paine National Park; Valle de la Luna and the Atacama Desert; Easter Island; Santiago; Chile's Lake District; Valparaíso; Lauca National Park, Cape Horn; Qhapaq Nan/Andean Road System
Major Sports: Soccer, rugby, tennis
Cultural Practices: Giving scissors or knives indicates a desire to sever a relationship.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping taxi drivers is not expected, but rounding up is appreciated. A tip of 1,000 pesos per night per person is considered a good tip for housekeeping, and a little tip per bag is expected for bellhops.
Souvenirs: Lapis lazuli jewelry, greda clay cooking pots, native pottery/ceramics, brassware, wine, merken chile seasonings
Traditional Cuisine: Pastel de Choclo — ground beef, onions, olives, and raisins, topped with a sweet corn crust; the corn crust is a paste of sweet corn kernels and basil cooked in milk or lardPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022