
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Nepal due to the potential for isolated political violence.  Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: +977 1 423-4000, +977 1 400-7272; US Embassy in Kathmandu, Embassy of the United States of America, Maharajgunj, Kathmandu, Nepal; usembktm@state.gov; https://np.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 977
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 228094; Fire: local number; Police: 100
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Varies from cool summers and severe winters in north to subtropical summers and mild winters in south
Currency (Code): Nepalese rupees (NPR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, D, M


Major Languages: Nepali, Maithali, Bhojpuri, Tharu, Tamang, Newar, Bajjika, Magar, Doteli, Urdu, Avadhi, Limbu, Gurung, Baitadeli; note: 123 languages reported as mother tongue
Major Religions: Hindu 81.3%, Buddhist 9%, Muslim 4.4%, Kirant 3.1%, Christian 1.4%
Time Difference: UTC+5.75 (10.75 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: An IDP is required, and after 15 days, a local license is required.
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Kathmandu (includes Boudhanath Stupa, Durbar Square); Bhaktapur; Pokhara; Annapurna Circuit trek; Chitwan National Park; Lumbini (Buddha Birthplace)
Major Sports: Soccer, cricket, swimming, volleyball, tennis, martial arts
Cultural Practices: After food has touched ones lips, many Nepalese consider it unclean. This belief applies to drinking from bottled water, or offering to share snacks.
Tipping Guidelines: At restaurants, if a service charge has not been included, 10% of the bill is an acceptable tip. Porters may be tipped $2-4 (USD) per day, guides $3-5 (USD) per day.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 18, 2022