
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Somalia due to COVID-19, crime, terrorism, civil unrest, health issues, and kidnapping. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required.
US Embassy/Consulate: Mogadishu, Somalia (reopened October 2019 on the grounds of the Mogadishu Airport); US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the embassy in Kenya; [254] (20) 363-6000; US Embassy Nairobi, United Nations Avenue Nairobi, PO Box 606 Village Market, 00621 Nairobi, Kenya; Kenya_ACS@state.gov; https://so.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 252
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations. On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Africa; Somalia is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Principally desert; northeast monsoon (December to February), moderate temperatures in north and hot in south; southwest monsoon (May to October), torrid in the north and hot in the south, irregular rainfall, hot and humid periods (tangambili) between monsoons
Currency (Code): Somali shillings (SOS)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C


Major Languages: Somali, Arabic, Italian, English
Major Religions: Sunni Muslim
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Mogadishu; cave art of Laas Geel; Hargeisa; sea beaches of Berbera; Kismayo National Park
Major Sports: Soccer, track and field
Cultural Practices: The left hand is considered unclean and should not be used for shaking hands.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not obligatory. For exceptional service, an additional tip is always welcome. Hotels and restaurants tend to include a tip of 5-10%, but luxury hotels and high-end restaurants may charge 10-15% of the total bill in the form of a service charge.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, April 05, 2022