

Topic: Photos of Coral Sea Islands

Topic: Introduction
Background: The widely scattered islands were first charted in 1803, but they were too small to host any permanent human habitation. The 1870s and 1880s, saw attempts at guano mining, but these were soon abandoned. The islands became an Australian territory in 1969 and its boundaries were extended in 1997. A small meteorological staff has operated on the Willis Islets since 1921, and several other islands host unmanned weather stations, beacons, and lighthouses. Much of the territory lies within marine national nature reserves.  The widely scattered islands were first charted in 1803, but they were too small to host any permanent human habitation. The 1870s and 1880s, saw attempts at guano mining, but these were soon abandoned. The islands became an Australian territory in 1969 and its boundaries were extended in 1997. A small meteorological staff has operated on the Willis Islets since 1921, and several other islands host unmanned weather stations, beacons, and lighthouses. Much of the territory lies within marine national nature reserves. Visit the Definitions and Notes page to view a description of each topic.

Topic: Geography
Location: Oceania, islands in the Coral Sea, northeast of Australia
Geographic coordinates: 18 00 S, 152 00 E
Map references: Oceania
Area: total: 3 sq km less than

land: 3 sq km less than

water: 0 sq km

note: includes numerous small islands and reefs scattered over a sea area of about 780,000 sq km (300,000 sq mi) with the Willis Islets the most important
Area - comparative: about four times the size of the National Mall in Washington, DC
Land boundaries: total: 0 km
Coastline: 3,095 km
Maritime claims: territorial sea: 3 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
Climate: tropical
Terrain: sand and coral reefs and islands (cays)
Elevation: highest point: unnamed location on Cato Island 9 m

lowest point: Pacific Ocean 0 m
Natural resources: fish
Land use: agricultural land: 0% (2018 est.)

other: 100% (2018 est.)
Natural hazards: occasional tropical cyclones
Geography - note: important nesting area for birds and turtles

Topic: People and Society
Population: no indigenous inhabitants (July 2021 est.)

note: there is a staff of four at the meteorological station on Willis Island
Age structure: 0-14 years: NA

15-24 years: NA

25-54 years: NA

55-64 years: NA

65 years and over: NA
Dependency ratios: total dependency ratio: NA

youth dependency ratio: NA

elderly dependency ratio: NA

potential support ratio: NA
Birth rate: NA
Death rate: NA (2021 est.)
Contraceptive prevalence rate: NA
Drinking water source: improved: urban: NA

rural: NA

total: NA

unimproved: urban: NA

rural: NA

total: NA
Current Health Expenditure: NA
HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA
HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA
HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA
Children under the age of 5 years underweight: NA
Education expenditures: NA

Topic: Environment
Environment - current issues: no permanent freshwater resources; damaging activities include coral mining, destructive fishing practices (overfishing, blast fishing)
Climate: tropical
Land use: agricultural land: 0% (2018 est.)

other: 100% (2018 est.)

Topic: Government
Country name: conventional long form: Coral Sea Islands Territory

conventional short form: Coral Sea Islands

etymology: self-descriptive name to reflect the islands' position in the Coral Sea off the northeastern coast of Australia
Dependency status: territory of Australia; administered from Canberra by the Department of Regional Australia, Local Government, Arts and Sport
Legal system: the common law legal system of Australia applies where applicable
Citizenship: see Australia
Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)
Diplomatic representation from the US: embassy: none (territory of Australia)
Flag description: the flag of Australia is used

Topic: Economy
Economic overview: no economic activity

Topic: Communications
Communications - note: automatic weather stations on many of the isles and reefs relay data to the mainland

Topic: Transportation
Ports and terminals: none; offshore anchorage only

Topic: Military and Security
Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia

Topic: Transnational Issues
Disputes - international: nonenone