
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Saudi Arabia due to COVID-19. Reconsider travel due to the threat of missile and drone attacks on civilian facilities. Exercise increased caution in Saudi Arabia due to terrorism. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [966] (11) 488-3800; US Embassy in Riyadh, PO Box 94309, Riyadh 11693, Saudi Arabia; RiyadhACS@state.gov; 

https://sa.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 966
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 997; Fire: 998; Police: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. Vaccinations required for certain visa classes. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Harsh, dry desert with great temperature extremes
Currency (Code): Saudi riyals (SAR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): G


Major Languages: Arabic
Major Religions: Muslim  (85-90% Sunni and 10-15% Shia), other (includes Eastern Orthodox, Protestant, Roman Catholic, Jewish, Hindu, Buddhist, and Sikh); note: most forms of public religious expression inconsistent with the government-sanctioned interpretation of Sunni Islam are restricted
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: National Museum of Saudi Arabia; Jamaraat Bridge; Mada’in Salih; King's Fountain; Dumat al-Jandal; Al-Turaif District
Major Sports: Soccer, camel racing, wrestling
Cultural Practices: Do not point at people, better to keep hands flattened and gesture instead.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 10-15% is expected for good service. Tip a porter/bellhop $1-2 (USD) per bag and a housekeeper $2 (USD) per day.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, January 12, 2022