
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Argentina. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is less than 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [54] (11) 5777-4533; US Embassy in Buenos Aires, Avenida Colombia 4300, (C1425GMN) Buenos Aires, Argentina; https://ar.usembassy.gov/; buenosaires-acs@state.gov
Telephone Code: 54
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 101; Fire: 107; Police: 101
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in southwest
Currency (Code): Pesos (ARS); USD accepted
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, I


Major Languages: Spanish, Italian, English, German, French, Indigenous (Mapudungun, Quechua)
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 62.9%, Evangelical 15.3%
Time Difference: UTC-3 (2 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Argentina, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Buenos Aires; Mar Del Plata; Iguazú Falls;  Bariloche (fishing, hiking, and skiing); Mendoza (vineyards, Cerro Aconcagua); Patagonia (includes Perito Moreno Glacier, Cerro Chaltén, Puerto Madryn  and the Valdés Peninsula; Tierra del Fuego National Park; Qhapaq Nan/Andean Road System
Major Sports: Pato (mix between polo and basketball), soccer, rugby
Cultural Practices: Hitting the palm of the left hand with the right fist means “I don’t believe what you are saying” or “That’s stupid.”
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not required, but common for good service. Conventionally, 10% tips are appropriate at restaurants, and leaving the change is normal for taxi cabs. Tip hotel doormen the equivalent of $1 (USD) per bag, and hotel maids the equivalent of $2-3 (USD) a day. A 10-20% tip for tour guides is appropriate.
Souvenirs: Leather goods, wine, alpaca wool clothing, mate gourds, gaucho knives/other traditional gaucho gear
Traditional Cuisine: Asado — cuts of beef, pork, chicken, or chorizo, and morcilla (blood sausage) that are barbecued on a grillPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022