
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Cabo Verde. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [238] 260-89-00; US Embassy in Praia, Rua Abilio Macedo 6, Praia, Cape Verde; https://cv.usembassy.gov/; PraiaConsular@state.gov
Telephone Code: 238
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 130; Fire: 131; Police: 132
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; warm, dry summer; precipitation meager and erratic
Currency (Code): Cabo Verdean escudos (CVE)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Portuguese, Krioulo
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 77.3%, Protestant 4.6%, other Christian 3.4%, Muslim 1.8%
Time Difference: UTC-1 (4 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Praia de Santa Maria; Praia de Chaves; Pedra do Lume Salt Crater; Buracona (Blue Eye); Cidade Velha
Major Sports: Soccer, surfing, sailing
Cultural Practices: It is common for people to make a "sssss" sound with their mouth to get your attention. This is not meant to be rude.
Tipping Guidelines: Tip a couple of euros or round up when possible in all situations.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Friday, March 25, 2022