
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel to Tuvalu due to COVID-19-related restrictions. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp.  A visa is required, but US citizen travelers may obtain the visa upon entering the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Tuvalu; the US Ambassador to Fiji is accredited to Tuvalu; +(679) 331-4466; EMER: +(679) 772-8049; US Embassy Suva, 158 Princes Rd, Tamavua, Suva, Fiji Islands
Telephone Code: 688
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; moderated by easterly trade winds (March to November); westerly gales and heavy rain (November to March)
Currency (Code): Tuvaluan dollars or Australian dollars (AUD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): I


Major Languages: Tuvaluan, English, Samoan, Kiribati (on the island of Nui)
Major Religions: Protestant 92.4%, Baha'i 2%, Jehovah's Witness 1.3%, Mormon 1%
Time Difference: UTC+12 (17 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Funafuti Marine Conservation Area; Tuvalu Woman's Handicraft Center
Major Sports: Kilikiti (similar to cricket), ano (variant of volleyball),  soccer, volleyball
Cultural Practices: Traditionally, Sundays are a day of rest and church attendance, and visitors are asked to be discreet in their choice of activities. Female visitors are also asked to dress modestly in towns and villages.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not common nor expected.
Souvenirs: Carved tuluma wooden tackle boxes, woven cloth, shell jewelry, stamps
Traditional Cuisine: Pulaka (similar to taro); often combined with coconut cream and served with fishPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022