
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to the Cayman Islands due to COVID-19-related restrictions. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required.
US Embassy/Consulate: None (overseas territory of the UK); consular services provided through the US Embassy in Jamaica; US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the Embassy in Jamaica [1] (876) 702-6000; US Embassy in Kingston, 142 Old Hope Road, Kingston 6, Jamaica, WI
Telephone Code: 345
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to October) and cool , relatively dry winters (November to April)
Currency (Code): Caymanian dollars (KYD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: English, Spanish, Filipino
Major Religions: Protestant 67.8%, Roman Catholic 14.1%, Jehovah's Witness 1.1%
Time Difference: UTC-5 (same time as Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: Seven Mile Beach; Stingray City; George Town; Atlantis Submarines; Cayman Turtle Centre; Bloody Bay Marine Park
Major Sports: Soccer, rugby, netball
Cultural Practices: Handshakes between men and women are the most common form of greeting.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is usually expected everywhere you go to eat or drink. Even though many eating establishments may include a service charge; service staff in restaurants and bars rely on tips for a large portion of their salary.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022