
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Burma due to civil unrest and armed conflict. Reconsider Travel to Burma due toCOVID-19-related restrictions and limited and/or inadequate healthcare resources. Exercise increased caution due to wrongful detentions and areas with land mines and unexploded ordnance. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [95] (1) 753-6509; US Embassy in Rangoon, 110 University Ave, Kamayut Township, Rangoon, Burma; https://mm.usembassy.gov/; ACSRangoon@state.gov
Telephone Code: 95
Local Emergency Phone: 999
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers (southwest monsoon, June to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall, mild temperatures, lower humidity during winter (northeast monsoon, December to April)
Currency (Code): Kyats (MMK)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, C, D, G, I


Major Languages: Burmese; note: minority ethnic groups use their own languages
Major Religions: Buddhist 87.9%, Christian 6.2%, Muslim 4.3%, animist 0.8%, Hindu 0.5%
Time Difference: UTC+6.5 (11.5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon; Temples of Bagan; Inle Lake; Bogyoke Aung San Museum; Shwenandaw Monastery; Mandalay Royal Palace; Mandalay Hill; Pyu ancient cities (includes Halin, Beikthano, and Sri Ksetra)
Major Sports: Soccer, golf
Cultural Practices: It is impolite to sit on a chair with one's legs crossed, especially for women.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not a common practice, but guides and drivers do expect to be tipped. Tipping guides $2-5 (USD) per person per day is customary; drivers should receive $1-2 (USD) per day.
Souvenirs: Bamboo and lacquer items, silk, loose gem stones, jewelry,  jade items, especially Buddha figures; marionettes
Traditional Cuisine: Mohinga — a fish and rice noodle soup enriched with a variety of ingredients either added to the soup or used as a dressing or garnishPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, July 26, 2022