
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Maldives due to terrorism. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 30 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in Maldives; US Ambassador to Sri Lanka and Maldives, is accredited to both countries; US citizens may call US Dept of State (202)-501-4444 for emergencies; alternate contact is the Embassy to Sri Lanka +94 (11) 249-8500; US Embassy Colombo, 210 Galle Road, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka; colomboacs@state.gov; https://lk.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 960
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 102; Fire: 999; Police: 119
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid; dry, northeast monsoon (November to March); rainy, southwest monsoon (June to August)
Currency (Code): Rufiyaa (MVR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, D, G, J, K, L


Major Languages: Dhivehi, English
Major Religions: Sunni Muslim
Time Difference: UTC+5 (10 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: National Museum; Sultan Park; Tsunami Monument; Republic Square; Rasfannu; Male Waterfront; Friday Mosque; Muleeaage Palace
Major Sports: Soccer, tennis, baseball, badminton, basketball, table tennis
Cultural Practices: While beachwear is acceptable in resorts, it is typically frowned upon in other locations.
Tipping Guidelines: If staying in a hotel for a few days or more and the staff has demonstrated good service, a gratuity of $2 (USD) per day is suggested. Tipping guides $10 (USD) per day is appropriate.
Souvenirs: Hand-woven wicker and reed mats, woven baskets, shell and stone jewelry, tree-sap-carved lacquered boxes and other carved wooden items
Traditional Cuisine: Garudiya — a clear fish (typically tuna) brothPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022