
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Norway. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [47] 21-30-85-40; US Embassy in Oslo, Morgedalsvegen 36, 0378 Oslo, Norway; OsloACS@state.gov; 

https://no.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 47
Local Emergency Phone: 112, 110
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate along coast, modified by North Atlantic Current; colder interior with increased precipitation and colder summers; rainy year-round on west coast
Currency (Code): Norwegian kroner (NOK)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Bokmal Norwegian, Nynorsk Norwegian, small Sami- and Finnish-speaking minorities
Major Religions: Church of Norway (Evangelical Lutheran - official) 68.1%, Muslim 3.4%, Roman Catholic 3.1%, other Christian 3.8%
Time Difference: UTC+1 (6 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March, ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Sognefjord; Pulpit Rock; Oslo (includes National Theater, Bygdoy, Viking Ships Museum, Akershus Fortress), Tromsø; Lofoten Islands; Bergen Hanseatic Warf
Major Sports: Soccer, winter sports (biatholon, cross-country skiing, ski jumping, speed skating), ice hockey, handball
Cultural Practices: Modesty is looked on favorably in Norway, while boastfulness is considered quite rude. This disposition stems from a cultural tradition known as Janet Law, which outlines a series of traditional Norwegian values.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is not required. It is, however, customary to leave a tip in restaurants and bars if you are happy with the service. A 10-20% tip is the norm. It is uncommon to tip taxi drivers or cleaning staff at hotels.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 25, 2022