
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Eritrea due to COVID-19, travel restrictions, limited consular assistance, and landmines. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [291] (1) 120004; US Embassy Asmara, 179 Alaa Street, Asmara, Eritrea; https://er.usembassy.gov/; consularasmara@state.gov
Telephone Code: 291
Local Emergency Phone: Local numbers only
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Hot, dry desert strip along Red Sea coast; cooler and wetter in the central highlands (up to 61 cm of rainfall annually, heaviest June to September); semiarid in western hills and lowlands
Currency (Code): Nakfa (ERN)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, L


Major Languages: Trigrinya, Arabic, English, Tigre, Kunama, Afar, other Cushitic languages
Major Religions: Sunni Muslim, Coptic Christian, Roman Catholic, Protestant
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Asmara (includes St. Mariam Cathedral, Our Lady of the Rosary Church, Kulafah Al Rashidin Mosque); Dahlak Marine National Park
Major Sports: Soccer, cycling, volleyball
Cultural Practices: Unlike in western countries where raised eyebrows indicate puzzlement, in Eretria they signal affirmation or approval.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping up to 10% of the bill in restaurants is appreciated, but not always expected; this amount may sometimes be included as a service charge. Tipping taxi drivers is uncommon.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022