
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Portugal due to COVID-19. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [351] (21) 727-3300; US Embassy Lisbon, Avenida das Forças Armadas, 1600-081 Lisboa, Portugal; conslisbon@state.gov; 

https://pt.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 351
Local Emergency Phone: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Maritime temperate; cool and rainy in north, warmer and drier in south
Currency (Code): Euros (EUR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Portuguese, Mirandese
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 81%, other Christian 3.3%, other (includes Jewish, Muslim) 0.6%
Time Difference: UTC 0 (5 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March, ends last Sunday in October; note: Portugal h 2 time zones, including the Azores (UTC-1)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Lisbon (includes Belem Tower, Monument to the Discoveries, Oceanarium, Jeronimos Monastery, Sao Jorge Castle, Ajuda Palace); Palacio Nacional de Sintra; Convento do Cristo (Tomar); Guimaraes Castle
Major Sports: Soccer, tennis
Cultural Practices: The number 13 is considered unlucky in Portugal. It is best not to give 13 flowers in an arrangement as a gift.
Tipping Guidelines: In tourist areas, if a service fee is not included in a restaurant bill, tip 10%. Tip 1-2 euros at the bar for good service. Tipping your tour guide and driver around 5 euros each day is appropriate. Taxi drivers in Portugal will not expect a tip, but if they turn up on time, share information about the country, and generally provide good service, rounding up the fare is common. Tip porters 1-2 euros per bag.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, January 12, 2022