

Topic: Photos of Heard Island and McDonald Islands

Topic: Introduction
Background: American sailor John HEARD discovered Heard Island in 1853 and thought it was a glacier that had broken away from Antarctica. Fellow American William MCDONALD discovered the McDonald Islands the following year. Starting in 1855, sealers lived on the islands harvesting elephant seal oil; by the time the practice was ended in 1877, most of the islands’ seals were killed. The UK formally claimed the islands in 1910 and Australian explorer Douglas MAWSON visited Heard Island in 1929. In 1947, the UK transferred the islands to Australia for its Antarctica research, but Australia closed the research station on Heard Island in 1954 when it opened a new research station on the Antarctic continent. McDonald Island has been an active volcano since it emerged from dormancy in 1992, and the island doubled in size after an eruption in 1996. In 1997, the islands were named a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Populated by a large number of bird species, seals, and penguins, the islands are primarily used for research with limited fishing being permitted in the surrounding waters.  American sailor John HEARD discovered Heard Island in 1853 and thought it was a glacier that had broken away from Antarctica. Fellow American William MCDONALD discovered the McDonald Islands the following year. Starting in 1855, sealers lived on the islands harvesting elephant seal oil; by the time the practice was ended in 1877, most of the islands’ seals were killed. The UK formally claimed the islands in 1910 and Australian explorer Douglas MAWSON visited Heard Island in 1929. In 1947, the UK transferred the islands to Australia for its Antarctica research, but Australia closed the research station on Heard Island in 1954 when it opened a new research station on the Antarctic continent. McDonald Island has been an active volcano since it emerged from dormancy in 1992, and the island doubled in size after an eruption in 1996. In 1997, the islands were named a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Populated by a large number of bird species, seals, and penguins, the islands are primarily used for research with limited fishing being permitted in the surrounding waters. Visit the Definitions and Notes page to view a description of each topic.

Topic: Geography
Location: islands in the Indian Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Madagascar to Antarctica
Geographic coordinates: 53 06 S, 72 31 E
Map references: Antarctic Region
Area: total: 412 sq km

land: 412 sq km

water: 0 sq km
Area - comparative: slightly more than two times the size of Washington, DC
Land boundaries: total: 0 km
Coastline: 101.9 km
Maritime claims: territorial sea: 12 nm

exclusive fishing zone: 200 nm
Climate: antarctic
Terrain: Heard Island - 80% ice-covered, bleak and mountainous, dominated by a large massif (Big Ben) and an active volcano (Mawson Peak); McDonald Islands - small and rocky
Elevation: highest point: Mawson Peak on Big Ben volcano 2,745 m

lowest point: Indian Ocean 0 m
Natural resources: fish
Land use: agricultural land: 0% (2011 est.)

other: 100% (2018 est.)
Natural hazards: Mawson Peak, an active volcano, is on Heard Island
Geography - note: Mawson Peak on Heard Island is the highest Australian mountain (at 2,745 meters, it is taller than Mt. Kosciuszko in Australia proper), and one of only two active volcanoes located in Australian territory, the other being McDonald Island; in 1992, McDonald Island broke its dormancy and began erupting; it has erupted several times since, most recently in 2005

Topic: People and Society
Population: uninhabited
Age structure: 0-14 years: NA

15-24 years: NA

25-54 years: NA

55-64 years: NA

65 years and over: NA
Dependency ratios: total dependency ratio: NA

youth dependency ratio: NA

elderly dependency ratio: NA

potential support ratio: NA
Birth rate: NA
Death rate: NA
Contraceptive prevalence rate: NA
Drinking water source: improved: urban: NA

rural: NA

total: NA

unimproved: urban: NA

rural: NA

total: NA
Current Health Expenditure: NA
HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA
HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA
HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA
Children under the age of 5 years underweight: NA
Education expenditures: NA
Sanitation facility access: improved: urban: NA

rural: NA

total: NA

unimproved: urban: NA

rural: NA

total: NA

Topic: Environment
Environment - current issues: none; uninhabited and mostly ice covered
Climate: antarctic
Land use: agricultural land: 0% (2011 est.)

other: 100% (2018 est.)

Topic: Government
Country name: conventional long form: Territory of Heard Island and McDonald Islands

conventional short form: Heard Island and McDonald Islands

abbreviation: HIMI

etymology: named after American Captain John HEARD, who sighted the island on 25 November 1853, and American Captain William McDONALD, who discovered the islands on 4 January 1854
Dependency status: territory of Australia; administered from Canberra by the Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment (Australian Antarctic Division)
Legal system: the laws of Australia apply where applicable
Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)
Diplomatic representation from the US: embassy: none (territory of Australia)
Flag description: the flag of Australia is used
National heritage: total World Heritage Sites: 1 (natural); note - excerpted from the Australia entry

selected World Heritage Site locales: Heard Island and McDonald Islands

Topic: Economy
Economic overview: The islands have no indigenous economic activity, but the Australian Government allows limited fishing in the surrounding waters. Visits to Heard Island typically focus on terrestrial and marine research and infrequent private expeditions.

Topic: Communications
Internet country code: .hm

Topic: Transportation
Ports and terminals: none; offshore anchorage only

Topic: Military and Security
Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia; Australia conducts fisheries patrols

Topic: Transnational Issues
Disputes - international: nonenone