
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution traveling to Solomon Islands due to low COVID-19 vaccination rates. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required.  A visa is not required.
US Embassy/Consulate: US does not have an embassy in the Solomon Islands; the US Ambassador to Papua New Guinea is accredited to the Solomon Islands; +(675) 321-1455; EMER: +(675) 7200-9439; US Embassy Port Moresby, Courier Service Address: Douglas Street, adjacent to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea; ConsularPortMoresby@state.gov; https://pg.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 677
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical monsoon; few temperature and weather extremes
Currency (Code): Solomon Islands dollars (SBD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): G, I


Major Languages: Melanesian pidgin, English; note: 120 indigenous languages
Major Religions: Protestant 73.4% (Church of Melanesia, South Sea Evangelical, Seventh Day Adventist, United Church, Christian Fellowship Church), Roman Catholic 19.6%, other Christian 2.9%
Time Difference: UTC+11 (16 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Left
Tourist Destinations: East Rennell; Guadalcanal American Memorial; Bonegi I & II; Morovo Lagoon; Tenaru Falls
Major Sports: Rugby, soccer, futsal (indoor court soccer), beach soccer
Cultural Practices: Tourists are advised to dress modestly and cursing is a crime punishable by a fine, jail time, or both.
Tipping Guidelines: There is no tipping and visitors are requested to honor this local custom. However, visitors can contribute to a shared tipping box whose contents are distributed at Christmas.
Souvenirs: Wood carvings, woven baskets and other woven goods, mother-of-pearl and shell jewelry and other decorative items
Traditional Cuisine: Poi — a savory side dish of rinsed taro roots turned into a pastePlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Wednesday, July 20, 2022