
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise increased caution in Belize due to crime.  Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required for stays of less than 30 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [011] (501) 822-4011; US Embassy, Floral Park Road, Belmopan, Cayo, Belize; https://bz.usembassy.gov/; ACSBelize@state.gov
Telephone Code: 501
Local Emergency Phone: 911
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to November); dry season (February to May)
Currency (Code): Dollars (BZD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 110 V, 220 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B, G (same as US plug)


Major Languages: English, Spanish, Belize Creole, Maya, German, Garifuna
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 40.1%, Protestant 31.5%, Jehovah's Witness 1.7%, other 10.5%, none 15.5%
Time Difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water outside the cities
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Ambergris Caye; Lighthouse Reef Atoll & the Blue Hole; Turneffe Islands Atoll; Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary; Mountain Pine Ridge Forest Reserve
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, sailing
Cultural Practices: Haggling is uncommon and considered rude, except at street markets.
Tipping Guidelines: A tip between 15-20% is appropriate in restaurants and bars. Tipping taxi drivers is typically rare because metropolitan prices are low. A tip somewhere between 5-15% of the total bill is appropriate for hotel staff.
Souvenirs: Mayan woven baskets and textiles, conch jewelry, wood-carved kitchenware and decorative items, handmade hammocks, native dolls, rum
Traditional Cuisine: Belizean Rice and Beans — red kidney beans and rice stewed in coconut milk; typically served with meat and potato salad and/or plantainsPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022