
US State Dept Travel Advisory: https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: A foreign national or alien entering the US is generally required to present a passport and valid visa issued by a US Consular Official, unless they are a citizen of a country eligible for the Visa Waiver Program (VWP), or are a lawful permanent resident of the US or a citizen of Canada. The VWP allows foreign nationals from certain countries to be admitted to the US under limited conditions and for a limited time without obtaining a visa. The foreign national must arrive on an approved carrier (if coming by air or sea), stay no more than 90 days (for pleasure, medical purposes, and/or business), and be able to prove they are not inadmissible. The foreign national is still required to have a passport. To obtain a list of VWP-eligible countries and VWP passport requirements, please visit https://www.dhs.gov/visa-waiver-program. Note: all travelers transiting the US are subject to US customs and/or immigration laws.
US Embassy/Consulate: N/A
Telephone Code: 671
Local Emergency Phone: 911 (USA)
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical marine; generally warm and humid, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry season (January to June), rainy season (July to December); little seasonal temperature variation
Currency (Code): US $ (USD)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 110 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: English, Filipino, Chamorro, other Pacific island languages, Asian languages
Major Religions: Christian (predominantly Roman Catholic) 94.2%, folk religions 1.5%, Buddhist 1.1%
Time Difference: UTC+10 (15 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes
International Driving Permit: Suggested for non-US citizens.
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Chamorro Village; Guam Museum; Dulce Nombre de Maria Cathedral Basilica; Fort Apugan; Latte Stone Park; Ritidian Point; Two Lover's Point; War in the Pacific National Historic Park (includes Apaca Point)
Major Sports: Soccer, basketball, rugby
Cultural Practices: Respect for family, community, and elders are major components of traditional Chamorro culture. Island culture has also been heavily influenced by both Spanish and American customs. The latter are pervasive in government and the media. Korean, Micronesian, Filipino, Chinese and Japanese immigrants have also enriched Guam's culture.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is common practice in the same way as it is in the US.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022