
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Belarus due to the arbitrary enforcement of laws, the risk of detention, the Russian military attack on neighboring Ukraine, the buildup of Russian military in Belarus along the border with Ukraine, COVID-19 and related entry restrictions.  U.S. citizens in Belarus should depart immediately via commercial or private means. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 3 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 2 blank pages in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required if you stay in the country more than 30 calendar days or if you enter or exit at border crossings other than the Minsk Airport, or if you travel from the Russian Federation. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: [375] (17) 210-12-83/217-73-47/217-73-48; US Embassy Minsk, 46 Starovilenskaya St., Minsk 220002, Belarus; https://by.usembassy.gov/; ConsularMinsk@state.gov
Telephone Code: 375
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 03; Fire: 01; Police: 02
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Cold winters, cool and moist summers; transitional between continental and maritime
Currency (Code): Rubles (BYB/BYR)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F (all plugs are symmetrical 2 pins)


Major Languages: Russian, Belarusian
Major Religions: Orthodox  48.3%, Roman Catholic 7.1%, other 3.5%, non-believers 41.1%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Nyasvizh Castle; Mir Castle; Minsk (includes Belarusian Great Patriotic War Museum and Vul Kastrychnitskaya); Homel Palace; Brest Fortress
Major Sports: Ice hockey, athletics (track and field), wrestling, soccer, tennis, swimming
Cultural Practices: Avoid using the "thumbs up" gesture in Belarus; it is considered rude.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is entirely discretionary and service charges are not automatically added to the bill. If you want to tip in a restaurant or café, give about 5% of the total amount. A few rubles are a common and appropriate tip for metered taxi drivers.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022