
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to Moldova due to armed conflict in neighboring Ukraine, the unresolved conflict between the breakaway region of Transnistria and the central government, and COVID-19.  U.S. citizens in Transnistria should depart immediately via commercial or private means. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws, and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is less than 90 days, within a six-month period.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(373)(22) 40-83-00; US Embassy Chisinau, 103 Mateevici Street, Chisinau MD-2009, Republic of Moldova; ChisinauACS@state.gov; 

https://md.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 373
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 903; Fire: 901; Police; 902
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Moderate winters, warm summers
Currency (Code): Moldovan lei (MDL)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Moldovan/Romanian, Russian, Gagauz, Ukrainian, Bulgarian
Major Religions: Orthodox 90.1%, other Christian 2.6%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Orheiul Vechi complex; Saharna Monastery; Milestii Mici Wine Cellar; Chisinau; Republic of Transnistria & Tiraspol
Major Sports: Soccer, rugby, basketball, cycling
Cultural Practices: Better to address people with their last name until invited to use their first name.
Tipping Guidelines: A service charge is often included in restaurant bills, but a further 5-10% is expected. Tips are not customary for taxis, but are appreciated.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022