
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens DO NOT TRAVEL to this country due to COVID-19, terrorism, civil unrest, health risks, kidnapping, armed conflict, and landmines. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp and or visa that will be required. A visa is required. US citizens will need to get in touch with the country’s embassy or nearest consulate to obtain a visa prior to visiting the country.
US Embassy/Consulate: No US Embassy or Consulate currently in Yemen since 2015, due to ongoing conflict; Yemen Affairs Unit currently operates out of US Embassy Riyadh, [966] 11-488-3800; (967) 1 755-2000; US Embassy in Sana’a, Sa’awan Street, PO Box 22347; YemenEmergencyUSC@state.gov; 

https://ye.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 967
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 191; Fire: 191; Police: 194
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations. On 21 March 2022, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Travel Alert for polio in Asia; Yemen is currently considered a high risk to travelers for polio; the CDC recommends that before any international travel, anyone unvaccinated, incompletely vaccinated, or with an unknown polio vaccination status should complete the routine polio vaccine series; before travel to any high-risk destination, CDC recommends that adults who previously completed the full, routine polio vaccine series receive a single, lifetime booster dose of polio vaccine.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in western mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot, dry, harsh desert in east
Currency (Code): Yemeni rials (YER)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): A, D, G


Major Languages: Arabic
Major Religions: Muslim 99.1% (estimated 65% are Sunni and 35% are Shia), other 0.9% (includes Jewish, Baha'i, Hindu, and Christian)
Time Difference: UTC+3 (8 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Al-Saleh Mosque; Old City of Sanaa; Socotra Island; Qalansiya Beach; Al Mukalla Harbor; Gulf of Aden, Shibam, Seiyun Palace, Thula Village
Major Sports: Soccer, boxing, mountain climbing
Cultural Practices: Yemenis greatly respect titles and positions of authority. Familiarity is commonly avoided in a work-related setting.
Tipping Guidelines: Leave a 10% tip in finer restaurants; otherwise round up the bill.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, April 05, 2022