
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens Reconsider Travel to Guatemala due to crime and COVID-19. Some areas have increased risk. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as you do not stay in the country more than 89 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [502] 2326-4000; US Embassy in Guatemala City, Avenida Reforma 7-01, Zona 10, Guatemala Ciudad, Guatemala;
Telephone Code: 502
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 123; Fire: 123; Police: 110
Vaccinations: An International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required for travelers arriving from countries with a risk of yellow fever transmission and for travelers having transited through the airport of a country with risk of yellow fever transmission. See WHO recommendations.

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Tropical; hot, humid in lowlands; cooler in highlands
Currency (Code): Quetzales (GTQ)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 120 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): A, B


Major Languages: Spanish, Maya languages
Major Religions: Roman Catholic 41.7%, Evangelical 38.8%, other 2.7%, atheist 0.1%
Time Difference: UTC-6 (1 hour behind Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested; additionally, if you plan to drive in Guatemala, you will need an Inter-American Driving Permit issued by the AAA
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Mayan ruins of Tikal; Antigua Guatemala; Lake Atitlan; Chichicastenango Market; Quetzaltenango; Archaeological Park & Ruins of Quirigua
Major Sports: Soccer, futsal (type of indoor soccer on a hard court)
Cultural Practices: Wine and flowers are appropriate gifts if invited to a household but avoid white flowers because they symbolize mourning.
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping is a question of rewarding good service rather than an obligation. Restaurant bills do not include gratuities so adding 10% is customary. Bellhops and maids expect tips only in the most expensive hotels.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Tuesday, March 22, 2022