
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in Romania. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport will not expire for at least 6 months after they enter the country even if they do not intend to stay that long. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required as long as the stay is less than 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: +(40) (21) 200-3300 and/or +(40) (21) 270-6000; US Embassy Bucharest, 4-6, Dr. Liviu Librescu Blvd., District 1, Bucharest, 015118 Romania; ACSBucharest@state.gov; https://ro.usembassy.gov/
Telephone Code: 40
Local Emergency Phone: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow and fog; sunny summers with frequent showers and thunderstorms
Currency (Code): Lei (RON)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 230 V / 50 Hz / plug types(s): C, F


Major Languages: Romanian, Hungarian, Romani
Major Religions: Eastern Orthodox 81.9%, Protestant 6.4%, Roman Catholic 4.3%, other (includes Muslim) 0.9%
Time Difference: UTC+2 (7 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time); daylight saving time: +1hr, begins last Sunday in March; ends last Sunday in October
Potable Water: Yes, but many opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Bran Castle; Sighisoara Historic Center; Palace of Parliament; Peles Castle; Merry Cemetery; Sibiu; Biertan Fortified Church; Dacian Fortresses; National Museum of Romanian History; Iron Gates in the Danube River
Major Sports: Soccer, gymnastics, handball, basketball, rugby
Cultural Practices: It is impolite to start eating immediately when seated, wait until your hosts says, "pofta buna" (good appetite).
Tipping Guidelines: Tipping 5-10% of the total bill for restaurant staff is appropriate. Hotel housekeeping should be tipped a bit per day or at the end of a longer stay. A porter expects  $1 (USD) per bag to carry luggage to a room.
Souvenirs: Embroidered items, hand-painted icons and eggs, carved wooden spoons, woven carpets
Traditional Cuisine: Sarmale (cabbage rolls) — minced pork and/or poultry mixed with spices, rice, and onions, then rolled up in cabbage leaves and boiled in a sauce made of sauerkraut juice, tomato juice, and other ingredients; typically served with mamaliga (a corn flour mush) and sour creamPlease visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, June 20, 2022