
US State Dept Travel Advisory: The US Department of State currently recommends US citizens exercise normal precautions in South Korea. Consult its website via the link below for updates to travel advisories and statements on safety, security, local laws and special circumstances in this country.

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html
Passport/Visa Requirements: US citizens should make sure their passport is valid at the date of their entering the country and during the length of their entire visit. They should also make sure they have at least 1 blank page in their passport for any entry stamp that will be required. A visa is not required for stays of less than 90 days.
US Embassy/Consulate: [82] (2) 397-4114; US Embassy Seoul, 188 Sejong-daero, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea; seoulinfoACS@state.gov; 

https://kr.usembassy.gov/
03141
Telephone Code: 82
Local Emergency Phone: Ambulance: 119; Fire: 119; Police: 112
Vaccinations: See WHO recommendations

http://www.who.int/
Climate: Temperate, with rainfall heavier in summer than winter; cold winters
Currency (Code): South Korean won (KRW)
Electricity/Voltage/Plug Type(s): 220 V / 60 Hz / plug types(s): F


Major Languages: Korean, English
Major Religions: Protestant 19.7%, Buddhist 15.5%, Catholic 7.9%, none 56.9%; note: many people also practice some Confucian practices
Time Difference: UTC+9 (14 hours ahead of Washington, DC, during Standard Time)
Potable Water: Yes, but some opt for bottled water
International Driving Permit: Suggested
Road Driving Side: Right
Tourist Destinations: Gamcheon Culture Village; Jeonju Hanok Village; Bridge of No Return; Hwaseong Fortress; Ganghwa Peace Observatory; Jindo Sea Parting; Seoraksan National Park; Seokguram Grotto & Bulguksa Temple; Jongmyo Shrine; Boryeong Mud Festival
Major Sports: Taekwondo, soccer, baseball
Cultural Practices: It is regarded as rude to point with your fingers. Better to gesture with your arm or hand. Casual physical contact, such as back slapping, is considered rude.
Tipping Guidelines: South Korea has a no-tip culture. Staff in restaurants and hotels, as well as taxi drivers, porters, and bellhops do not expect tips. Telling the taxi driver "keep the change" is appreciated. Most hotels add a compulsory 10% service charge to the bill.Please visit the following links to find further information about your desired destination.

World Health Organization (WHO) - To learn what vaccines and health precautions to take while visiting your destination. 

US State Dept Travel Information - Overall information about foreign travel for US citizens.

To obtain an international driving permit (IDP). Only two organizations in the US issue IDPs:
American Automobile Association (AAA) and American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA)

How to get help in an emergency? 
Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate, or call one of these numbers:
from the US or Canada - 1-888-407-4747 or from Overseas - +1 202-501-4444


Page last updated: Monday, April 25, 2022