

Topic: The World Factbook is one of the US Government’s most accessed publications.The World Factbook, produced for US policymakers and coordinated throughout the US Intelligence Community, presents the basic realities about the world in which we live. We share these facts with the people of all nations in the belief that knowledge of the truth underpins the functioning of free societies.

Topic: Who uses The World Factbook?A wide variety of folks including US Government officials, researchers, news organizations, corporations, geographers, travelers, teachers, professors, librarians, and students. In short, anyone looking for an expansive body of international data on a recently updated Web site. The World Factbook is visited by tens of millions of visitors annually; the Web site is especially popular during the school year, with a noticeable drop-off in online visits during the summer months. In all, The World Factbook is one of the US Government’s most popular Web sites.

Topic: Answers to The World Factbook’s many quiz questions are available.The answers to the questions that have appeared in the What’s New page since 2010 may all be found here.

Topic: The World Factbook has had three different logos.Beginning in 2001, The World Factbook has been represented with three distinct emblems. The evolution of The Factbook’s logo may be found here.

Topic: The World Factbook is a one-stop reference site.Although many of the facts presented in The Factbook may be found in various other publications, they are conveniently gathered together in one place only at The World Factbook Web site.

Topic: The World Factbook is now widely represented on social media and contains more features geared to travelers.Visitors can follow The Factbook on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and You Tube, while travelers can download single-page Travel Facts and One-Page Country Summaries.

Topic: The World Factbook is a unique reference in that it is updated continuously – on average, every week.Information in The Factbook is collected from – and coordinated with – a wide variety of US Government agencies, as well as from hundreds of published sources.